Dragonball T! Module for the T-Engine

Jul 20, 2006
Started from the ToME Module V3.0.0Alpha4


(Nov 14, 2007 Note: This version format is only accurate up to V0.6.5 at which point the format changes)

Version Format:
Va.b.c

"a" Denotes major conceptual implementations.
"b" Denotes either arbitrary groupings of changes that I personally feel deserve a version change
	or a reworking or addition of a major subsystem. More likely the first of the two.
"c" Denotes actual days worked. If I spend 12 hours working on a bunch of things on Tuesday...that's .1
	If I take two minutes on Wednesday and make a spelling correction, that's .2

Version numbers increment...colums are ignored. V 0.0.11 is nine revisions from V 0.0.2



V 0.0.1 Let's Begin, Shall We?

Stat Changes:
	Wisdom is now Willpower
	Speed added as a primary stat
	Max stat values set to 100
	(Note: Wisard mode doesn't display "speed" correctly when using ctrl-e)

Skills
	Removed Mimicry

Race/Class
	Trimmed down the available race/class list. Eventually there will be none to choose from.
	Race and class being things that change in game, but it seems the engine freaks
	out if there isn't at least two of everything.

calc.lua math
	HP = Constitution * Level
	Sanity = Level + Intelligence + Willpower
	Weight limit = Str * 10 pounds (or rather, Str * 100 decapounds)
	eliminated gloves for chi (mana) computation and change messages

	Dex to-hit bonus is now dex - 10
	str to-dam bonus is now str - 10
	str no longer gives a to-hit bonus
	(...should str really affect missile damage...?)
	(More to the point...will missile weapons continue to exist?)

	Charisma price modifer is now as follows
	Every point of charisma below ten adjusts prices 10% out of your favor (Maybe this should be 20%?)
	Every point of charisma above ten adjusts price 1% in your favor
	(Thus, in theory, at 100 charisma, everything is free?)
	(Charisma math not verified at stores...but it compiles ok)

	(At this time the display is incorrect during character creation...
	 but the in-game values are correct.)

Birth.lua
	Changed starting stat method...now:
	All 7 stats "start" at 10, and players may rearrange points as desired.
	Nothin less than 8, nothing greater than 13
	(Maybe should max at 12?)
	AND IT WORKS!!!
	(Though chp doesn't adjust with mhp. *shrug*)

	Doing this, incidentally fixed the above-mentioned display problem.
	(Some old data structures remain...could stand to be cleaned up)

Towns
	Replaced bree.map with earthcity.map

Quest/Monsters/Artifacts
	Eliminated all original Quests, uniques, and artifacts
	(EDIT: Missed Galadriel...she's still there.)

Sentients
	Eliminated Sentient items

Magic
	Removed the schools of Necromancy and Music

Options
	Changed default "center view on player" to true. (I like it this way.)

Monster Ego Types
	Removed the townpeople_can_elf/dwarf/hobbit/human flags from all monsters
	(Note that the flags themselves still exist)

Help
	Removed some of the more annoying newbie help messages

July 21, 2006 V0.0.2 Weapons Are Good

Items
	TV_SWORD   => TV_SWORDARM
	TV_KNIFE   => TV_SMALLARM
	TV_HAFTED  => TV_ENTANGLEARM
	TV_POLEARM => TV_POLEARM (unchanged)
	TV_AXE     => Eliminated
	TV_MSTAFF  => Eliminated
	All around thematic weapon changes
	All melee weapons moved from specific master to Weaponmastery (temp)

	(Weapon damages, costs, levels, etc need to be adjusted in many places)
	(Still need to add: sai, tonfa, butterfly knife, *butterfly knife*
	(...brass knuckles, hooksword, nightstick, nunchaku, escrima stick)
	(Still need to thematically replace polearms, too.)
	(Need to address paired weapons. Should be a flag.)

Weapon Functionality
	Added WEAPON_DIFFICULTY flag
	Added WEAPON_PAIRED flag (though the *butterfly knife* is the only one so far)
	Made the WEAPON_PAIRED flag visible in desc.lua
	Eliminated SKILL associations from all weapons
	Eliminated ARM slot from descriptors.lua
	Added a second WIELD slot
	Made shields equip to the WIELD slot (See where I'm going?)
	(Yes, you can wield two shields...but combat.lua will be changed so you
	(...can't attack.)
	(Interestingly, all of the above seems to work. Just need to reflect...
	(...actual combat rules, and also display damage in charsheet.lua)

Junk
	Thematic Junk added: comic books, manga, baseballs, kung fu videos.
	(Incidentally...how do we see the descriptions without having ID?)
	(...Easy_know doesn't seem to do it.)

Food
	Thematic food added
	(Ahhh! here's our answer...food shows text...will have to investigate later.)

Stores
	Added Akira, the Sushi Chef
	Added the Sushi Bar

Skills
	Added skeleton for Str/Int/Wil/Dex/Con/Chr/Spd skills
	(Though they're not actually functional yet)

Items
	Enabled SHOW_AC_MODS on Tai Chi Swords (though they're defaulting to zero...?)

Shops
	1 General Store => The Mega Mall
	2 Armor Store   => Clothing Store
	3 Weapons Store => Martial Arts Supply Store
	4 Temple	=> ??? (Unchanged for now)	(EDIT: Temple is now Gun Store. :) )
	5 Alchemy Shop	=> RVac
	6 Magic Store	=> Electronics Store
	7 Black Markey	=> Pawnshop
	Bree_Mayor	=> The World Tournament!
	
	Eliminated: Prancing Pony, Beastmaster, Pet Store, Book Store, Soothsayer

	General Thematic Changes to Store_Owners
	Created the Various Schools (Martial Arts Schools, not magic schools)

Items
	Added a whole slew of items:

	polearms:	(removed old)
			spear, bo staff, waxwood staff, three sectional staff

	Smallarms:	escrima stick, nunchaku, butterfly knife, sai, tonfa
			ninja, claw

	swords:		ninja-to, hooksword

	helm:		sunglasses, mirrowed shades, blindfold, ninja hood, samurai helm
			motorcycle helmet

	(Eliminated "light_helm" / "heavy_helm" replaced with "headpiece")

	boots:		ninja boots, tennis shoes, steel-toed shoes, high heels
			ballet slippers, toeshoes

	Gloves:		light boxing gloves, heavy boxing gloves, ninja gloves
			golfing gloves, silk gloves, welding gloves

	body armor:	lightweight gi, heavyweight gi, streetclothes, qipao
			boxing shorts, tutu, leather jacket, fancy dress, tuxedo
			power armor, bathrobe
			(I just love how bathrobe came right after "power armor.")

Stores:		Added Arnold/Miss Eliott
		Added 24/7 Fitness/Library

July 22, 2006 V0.0.3 A Few Changes

Items
	New:	TV_JUNK: Umbrella, Dojo Sign
	Misc. Changes from the FixMe log, pertaining to item attributes. 

Artifacts
	New:	Jagged-Edged Sword of King Mouse
	New:	Claw of The Shredder
	New:	Wong-Fei Hong's Umbrella
	New:	The Straightsword 'Green Destiny'
	New:	Wine of The Drunken Master
	New:	Yamcha's Baseball
	(Also added potion:wine and swordarm:jagged_sword to accomodate)

Monsters
	(...flag changes?)

July 23, 2006 V0.0.4 The Big Purge

General Purges
	Runecraft and Runes (For some reason this fixed a bug that had me baffled
				for hours yesterday and gave up on...monsters are
				once again appearing in town. Huh? Runecraft...?)
	Geomancy

Skills
	All Masteries, knife, crits and stun gone
	Combat becomes martial arts
	Weaponmastery becomes weapons
	New: Parrying and Paried, subskills under Weapons
	Dodge and Stealth go under Martial Arts
	Necromancy/Mimicry/Music gone (for real this time)
	Sorcery Gone
	Summoning/Symbiosis Gone
	Sneakiness/Steal/Backstab Gone (Inetlligence replaces Sneak: perception relation)
	Sling and Bow Mastery Gone

General Purges
	Purged the monster lists
	Eliminated Gods, God and and Udun magic and books, and piety
	Elimiated Prayer and Spirituality (Willpower replaces Spirituality's Saving Throw mod)

Skills
	Added Technology, Construction and Disassembly
	Technology replaces SKILL_DEVICE
	Disassembly replaces SKILL_DISARM   (Unresolved Implications for movement modes...)
	Added Chi, Chi-Attack, Chi-Defense, Chi-Regeneration and Chi-Gung
	Moved mana from Magic to Chi. *IF* you have a Chi skill, you Chi is Skill+Int+Will-20, else zero.

Help
	Cleaned up the help a bit
	Updated symbols.lua

Monsters
	Added some monsters
	Added Drainage Ditch special_gene monsters

Maps
	Exchanded Middle Earth for Space, changed maps accordingly

July 23, 2006 V0.0.5 Yet More Purges

General Cleanup
	Eliminated the last of the out-of-theme shopkeepers
	Eliminated Lothlorien, Bree and Destroyed Bree
	Eliminated scrolls. (Seriously. Gone. Parchments remain, however. And will continue to.)


July 26, 2006 V0.0.6 Progress is!

General
	Well...I found some absolutely nasty bugs that had been creeping around since V.0.0.2,
	and unfortuantely some of them I couldn't resolve even after four or five hours of
	trying to find them. Yes...even just to find WHERE they were. So, ultimately I ended up
	giving up completely and reverting to a previous version. I did manage to track down 	
	few of them, so I didn't have to completely revert to version 2 (that would have been...
	sad.) The V002 problem was that placing a dungeon anywhere caused the town to fail to load.
	Eventually it turnedout that it was a problem with object themes. (?) I'm not exactly
	clear on the details...actually, but at this point I'm happy it's fixed and running again.
	Unfortuanetly it looks like I'm going to have to go back and purge alchemy/thaumaturgy/
	gems/orbs/rods...I think for the third time now. But...we can get to that. After having
	done it succesfully once, it should be easier next time, right?

***NOTE***
	There appears to be something horribly wrong with the object themes. I'm not
	sure what...since it really doesn't look that complicated, but please keep in mind the
	danger of proceeding onward withotu entirely figuring out what the problems is. We don't
	want another revert!

Towns
	Restored the towns, stores and owners from prior to the revert. There are now four
	"towns" again.

NOTE
	Figured out the problem with Object Themes. Apparantly I had left TVALs for both light
	and heavy armor in the combat section, even though neither of them exist anymore.
	Even when I called other object themes, that one still caused a crash. Fixed.

Dungeons
	New:	The Warehouse
	New:	The Sewers (The Ninja Sewers, at that.)

***KNOWN BUG***
	Can't add monsters to special dungeon levels. But hey, at least I can have special levels now,
	right? I mean...I couldn't even have DUNGEONS not that long ago.

Items
	New TVAL: Drink
	New Drinks: Water, Perrier, Dr. Pepper, Mountain Dew, Jolt
	"Wine" moved from potions to drinks
	Purged the potion list
	New potions: poison, antidote, nuclear waste
	Eliminated Yamcha's Baseball (Wasn't an awful idea, but there are much better ones)


	Bows => Guns
	Eliminated Slings and Shots 
	New Guns: Pistol, Rifle, Machine Gun, Bazooka
	Temple => Gunstore
	New Tools: Mechanical toolkit, electrical toolkit, chemistry kit, lathe
	Created the various Tecn materials:
	TV_CIRCUITRY: resister, capacitor, circuit board, wire, solder, eprom
	TC_CHEMISTRY: iron, sulfer, sodium permangananate, hydrogen tetrachloride,
			aluminum dioxide, assorted hydrocarbons
	TV_BULK_MATERIAL: steel, aluminum, titanium, plastiform, fiberglass, tubing
	TV_FANTASY_PARTS: particle accelerator, plasma diode, maglev tube, nanites,
			tachyon streamer, positronic relay

	(Please no diparaging remarks from the more technically inclined. 

Bugfix
	Weight limit should be correct now. For some reason the "weight limit" isn't a
	measure of 1/10th poounds, but rather of 1/20th pounds. *shrug*

Items
	New Armor: camoflague outfit, ninja uniform

Gods
	Whoops! Purged some "Yavanna piety loss for killing trees" references from scripts

Jul 27, 2006 V 0.0.7 Small details That Become Major Breakthroughs

Note
	I notice it takes nearly four seconds for a wilderness panel to load. It only
	takes the ToME module about a second and a half. What's going on? DB is about a third the sixe.

Combat & math
	Made barehanded available even at zero skill
	Eliminated "dodge chance" Dodge now just directly adds to AC

Race/Clas/Birth
	Created the various races & classes and...more importantly:
		FIXED BIRTH.LUA SO IT DOESN'T ASK FOR THEM! YAY!
		Now I just need to figure out how to assign them myself.
		tinsert? descriptors? I see a player_get.descriptor...but
		how to you SET one?
Items

	New: Nightvision goggles, infrared goggles
	Broke artifacts *sigh*

Map
	Cleaned up, added Ballet school and Military surplus near capsule corp HQ

Quests
	Lots of background setup for Tournament and Dojo quests
	It is now possible to learn any of the six styles!
	Restricted studio stores to students only (Except Elizabeth)


Jul 28, 2006 V 0.0.8

Misc
	Added Perrier to Eau De France
	Added drinks to Pizza Kitchen
	Graphical Map Changes
	Made the Martial Arts SUpply Store less accessible
	Enabled lessons at: Kickboxing, Ninjutsu, TaeKwonDo, Ballet schools
	Resolved race/class issues, but...

???????????????????
	Huh? I can declare constants in /quest/*.lua, but not /script/*.lua??????

	?????
	?????
	?????
	This is why this has been so frustrating. Two LUA files...both being loaded with
	via same do_file method, I copy and paste some constant declarations in one, and
	it works FINE. Put it in the other instead and it DOESN'T. The only difference I
	can tell is that the two files have different names and are in different directories.
	Seriously!!! WHAT'S THE DEAL!?!?!?!?

	So I guess I'll declare stuff in the dojo quest file. It seems to work from there.

	Oh...also, using loadsave with the ", 0" without really knowing what that means.
	Dangerous.

More Misc
	Changed starting zeni in calc.lua
	Reduced starting stat limit from 13 to 12

Items:
	New: flashlight, safety flashlight, maglight

Maps
	Added in Yamcha's Bridge

Quests
	Added the six "challenge" quests for the various schools, and accompanying dialogue
	(note, the ctrl-Q and ~ quest lists aren't working in this version, so testing
	(is a little difficult.)

Artifacts
	Added the Seven dragonballs. I'd like to test them, but artifacts still seem to be
	broken.

Stores
	Added a class at the shooting range
	Added Dialogue for the OTHER five schools

V 0.1.0		A New Version number! yay!

Eomments:
	I've kind of just been incrementing the numbers. Honestly, we probably deserve a 0.3.0
	right now with everything I've added, but well...*shrug*

	Also, note that for reasons I'd rather not get into, there is a lot of data structure
	quests/dojo.lua there doesn't really *belong* there, but it's there, and it works...
	and I kind of don't want to move it out, so...for now, it's there.

Stores
	Gym and Library memership and training now functional
	(Still need to add the "quest" descriptors so people know when to go train/read)

Items
	Added starting equipment
	Added FLIGHTLIGHTS to the Megamall. (Wow...game was tought to start without those)
	Eliminated Ego items

Flags
	Eliminated Ego monster flags
	changed ALLOW_IN flags a bit, "townspeople" can now appear in town

Monsters:
	New monster spell: Buzz (aggravate)
	New monsters for the sewers: dragonfly, large cochroach, small rat, large rat (Yes, it's an ROUS)

Major Bug:
	Hmm. Looks like monsters cannot be madeto cast spells. Wonder how long this has been floating
	around. Probably a LONG time.

Stats
	Got rid of those silly stat.adj tables. Everything is using math now.
	Increased stat limits to 100

Misc
	Changed calendar to standard/modern
	Added some parchments, put in library

Quests
	Added Stores: Airport and Hanger
	Added Hanger "quest" (Basically, you can rent a hanger for use as a house)

Items
	Purged old item/artifacts activations
	removed eternity object from desc.lua

COmbat
	Spent about 4.5 hours trying to get a combat system working. Of that...about 4 hours were spent
	being absoutely baffled in sheer frustration over what seems like amazing stupidness. Weapons
	combat basically works, I just need to change the to hit and damage math. Barehanded is broken.
	I'd like to be able to say why. Project() doesn't seem to want to accept any damage type I
	can feed it. I've looked at plenty of functional examples in the code...even copied and pasted
	from them, and it doesn't seem to want to work. I've gone line by line commenting and substituing
	lines from the functional weapons side of combat, and when I substitute the type line, I can
	reproduce the error. But...why does:

			local dams = player.inventory[INVEN_WIELD][1].flags[FLAG_DAM]
			typ = flag_max_key(dams)

	Work fine...but any sort of direct damage: dam.PURE, dam.CRUSH, dam.etc not? Again...I can see lots
	of examples in the ToME module that do exactly that. I've confirmed that the damage types I'm
	referring to do exist in dam_types.lua. They do. I've tried lookign up project() to try to figure
	out what it's looking for, but the function appears to be hard coded. Not sure what to try next.
	Sleep, maybe.

July 31, 2006 V 0.2.0 Combat Complete

Combat
	Fixed barehand. Here was the solution: typ = flag_max_key(getter.damages{CRUSH = {1,2}})
	Not elegant...and I don't understand why it's necessary, but it works.
	Cleaned up combat in general
	Created/Added weapon difficulty values for all weapons

Help
	Put in some help files

Combat
	DONE!!! CLEAN HEALTHY AND ALIVE!!! YAY! YAY! YAY!

Lites
	Eliminated lite slot. Flashlights are now wielded in hands
	(Though this introduces problems: fuel no longer goes away)

Misc
	No more going to wilderness map, but oh, aren't the stars lovely?

July 31, 2006 V 0.2.1

Acupuncture
	Added Dr. Tofu, acupuncture clinic, acupuncture ability, and needles.

Tools
	Implemented tools at a basic level
	Implemented acupuncture needles(heheh..."self mutilation" :P)
		(note, delay not implemented)

Misc
	Minor costemtic changes to features.lua
	Corrected dark walls in dungeons
	Wrote some parchments
	World Tournament infrastructure (broken?)

Grr-ness
	Performed a revert on features.lua. Copy and pasted in FIGHTING_RING and DISQUALIFIED again

Bugfixes and misc
	Can enter stores again
	WT brochure available at the WT
	Added Miss Elliott and Arnold to the chat list
	Rearrnged the actions at the gym so they didn't overlap

Auguest 2, 2006 V 0.2.2

Quests
	Restored and fixed the basic George/Pawnbroker dialgue re: stolen goods quest

Misc
	added sanjobang & put in Korean school

Misc
	Reduced sale value of high heels
	The pawnshop and electronics stores now no longer sell sushi
	The pawnshop no longer pays full value for items
	DOjo signs now have a description
	Damage is now applied AFTER the "you hit it" message to prevent "You kill it. You hit it"
	
August 3, 2006 V 0.2.3

Bugfix
	Corrected the inability to '?' query character types.

Items
	Eliminated TV_FLASK
	Fixed wine at Eau De France
	New Item: Batteries, put in RVAC and electronics
	Removed pizza from the warehouse(s), shooting range and capsule corp
	Removed comic books from the Briefs' Lab

Dungeons
	Populated Nutcracker dungeon with monsters
	Removed dark walls in City Sewers

Misc
	Warehouses now display 'There's nothing here.' insetad of 'A Shopkeeper'

Bugfix
	Fixed arifacts! (I have no clue what the problem was.)s

Artifacts
	Added descriptions and powers to several
	New: The Z-Sword (and base type to support it)
	New: Iron Umbrella (hahah!)
	New: Mike Tyson's Boxing Gloves

August 4, 2006 V 0.2.4

Dialogue
	Restored the Challenge Quest dialogues (Though the quests themselves are not completable)

Misc
	Started thematizing gold names. May need engine fixes to finish. (Or completely re-do gold myself)
	Cleaned up help some
	General preparation for release

Auguest 5, 2006 V 0.2.5

Items
	New Item: dobak, pudao
	Sushi given it's own TVAL
	New Sushi: takko, anago, uni, fugu
	New TVAL: Launcher, and Bazooka moved to it
	New flags: AMMO_CAPACITY, AMMO_CURRENT
	Missile Weapons now display their ammo
	TV_ARROW => TV_CLIP
	New TVAL: TV_MISSILE
	Guns now fire bullets from clips, launchers now fire missiles
	Added a Firearms Guide
	(Need to build a new archery system)

Calc.lua changes
	Eliminated everythign to do with heavy bows: tohit penalities and 'haeavy bow' messages
	Got rid of 'icky wield' (we don't have sorcerors or Eru priests, do we?)
	(Left heavy weapon wield for now...will probably go eventually)
	Sped up the hp regen rate
	Eliminated some of teh remaining to hit modifiers
	Eliminated the +30 stealth testing bonus I've been using
	Eliminated Chi penalties from heavy armor

Purge
	Started Purging the old abilities

Wow!
	Discovered a bug: MUST2H weapons no longer take up both hands when you equip them.
	Checked the history...and this has been around since VERSION 002!

	Wow.

	No idea why. Put it a temporary fix to prevent a second weapon from attacking if the first
	is MUST2H. You can still equip two...but only the first will actually attack, and non-matched
	weapon tohit penalties will still be applied, so...while not *correct* at least it's not something
	anyone is likely to be taking advantage of.


Purge
	Eliminated corpse preservation. Fixed corpse drop rate at 10%. Not sure what I want to do with corpses.
	Removed All old abilities, put in a placeholder
	Removed an old ALLOW_IN_BARROW_DOWNS flag from vaults.lua
	Removed tha MAGIC skill from skills.lua? Wow...

Store Actions
	Chat => Talk
	New action: Challenge

Monsters
	New: orange/green/brown/black belt, policeman

Quests
	Criminal Quest assignable, police now spawn

Bug
	First observation of the "Too much Con crash" bug

August 6, 2006 V 0.2.6

Balance Change
	Give 10 exp for studying a martial arts style. This simplifies the early game

Bugfix
	Fixed Ballet challenge quest

Marksmanship/New Command
	It is now possible to load guns (not launchers) with the 'a'mmo command
		(Note that at present the gun must be identified for the ammo to display correctly)

Display
	Fixed ranged tohit display
	Adjusted display widths

New Ability: Swimming

Electronics/Technology
	Added: Compass, GPS, cell phone, metal detector, laser pointer, SCUBA gear, laptop
	New Activations: Laptop, Compass, GPS
	New flag: TECH_REQUIRE
	Implemented: require TECHNOLOGY skill to wield/use certain items

Features
	No walking on deep water unless have MAGIC_BREATH (yes, yes...add water walking and water breath)

Purge
	Wands are now gone!

Technology Requirements
	completed tech_require functionality for tools
	Added it to nightvision and infrared goggles

Abilities
	Actually implemented AB_SWIM. (It's just a check for it at deep_water in features.lua)

Marksmanship
	PURGED the old archery system...and it *appears* to be clean! Yay!
	New Abilities: Paired firearms, multi-target firing mode
	Partially implemented close range firearm combat

Game COncepts
	Made some conceptual changes to combat.

Combat
	Added a bunch of constants to support the new *variable combat* system
	(Did those make it past the revert?)

Hooks(Wield_pre)
	Implemented my own MUST2H checking
	
Combat
	Oooofff!
	Ok...ther are now 16 permutations, and...umm "several" sub-possibilities" of ways in which
	combat can be computed based on any of four possible types of items in either hand. (Yes, that's
	only 8. But sadly, it's x2 because I computed separately depending on hand to accomodate weapon
	bonuses. *shrug*) Anyway...it works! And it's mostly complete. A few things are missing. But,
	I'm happy. We're good. Cuddles and tits for everyone! Yay!

August 8, 2006 V 0.2.7

Combat
	Hmm. Rethinking this...making some conceptual changes.
	Added DIFFICULTY for all firearms
	Rule Change: If doble barehand fighting, the AC bonus is counted for EACH hand! (+200 AC, anyone?)

	Hmm. Actually, the changes are complicated enugh that I don't think I'm going to itemize them.
	Go read the various book-*.txt's on the various combat methods. That's what I've implemented over
	the past few days.

Leftovers:
	Need to consider when (1 and 0) or (2 and 0) situations allow barehand ac bonuses

	(Got tired of working on combat, and leaving it incomplete
 	As is...it's largely finished, but you can't actually hit anything
	Here's the problem. In combat.lua:

	local attack_barehand = function(which)
		message("foo")
		return true
	end

	local attack_weapon = function(which)
		message("bar")
		return true
	end

	attack_barehand(1)
	attack_weapon(1)

	Works fine, generates: foo bar
	But...

	local attack_barehand = function(which)
		message("foo")
		attack_weapon(1)
		return true
	end

	local attack_weapon = function(which)
		message("bar")
		return true
	end

	attack_barehand(1)

	Generates: foo LUA ERROR! etc. breaking chain etc.

	Why? Don't ask me.

	So I'm going to go work on something else for a while.

Bugfix
	Woohoo! Moonsters can cast spells again. Apparantly I missed a } while declaring
	globals for player spell schools, and this caused monster spells to not load.

Yamcha
	Changed EAT_GOLD so that monsters NEVER telepoty away after stealing gold. (Is this evil? :) )
	Placed Yamcha on his bridge. Added some on_speak for him.

World Tournament
	Restored the WT test stairway
	WT now places a monster

August 10, 2006 V 0.2.8

Dragonballs
	Added the seven dragonballs

Bugfix (sort of)
	Reduced stat limits to 99. Constitution of 100 and move causes the engine to crash.

Stores
	Added eat to full at Rusty's Pizza Kitchen

Combat
	Two new damage types: Barehanded, ballistic
	Added the 'you thwack it' message functions
	finished rebuilding combat...barehand and combat completed to the pont of being functional

August 10, 2006 V 0.2.8

Gero Lab
	Created the lair, dungeon, unique and robots of Dr. Gero's laboratory

Items
	Added blueprints

August 14, 2006 V 0.2.9 Second Unnoficial Public Release

Bugfixes
	World Tournament was a mess. Cleaned it up some.
	Dr. Gero can speak again
	Orange belts are now orange
	Corrected combat related display numbers...some.
	Black belts no longer move extremely erratically :)
	Restored disturb and tracking to combat
	Fixed the con/hp/leveling crash bug! (Engine Limitation! Not my fault!)
	(Set Yamcha to rarity 100 so he doesn't apear everywhere)

Marksmanship
	Archery => Marksmanship
	Disallowed wielding of firearms with zero markmanship skill
	Firearms Abilities allocation migrated from default to Charleton in actions.lua

Quests
	Kind of Sort of implemented the challenge quests, almost
	You now start the game with the WT and Dojo quests
	Challenge Quests for Karate and Kung Fu are completeable, though still not as intended
	Temporarily removed Yamcha from this release due to unresolved problems

Release Prep
	Added some helper texts to ease the pain of engine limitations and DBT unimplemented code

August 15, 2006 V 0.3.0

Challenge Quests
	Restructured enrollment process to the effect of an 8K smaller actions.lua file (arrays are good)
	Added Judo and Sumo, for a total of eight schools
	Allowed for re-studying the same style multiple times
	Rebalanced school skill awards to account for all of the above

Stats/Skills/Abilities
	Implemented Stat skills (Wow...they work! At least they appear to...)
	Removed Moster Lore and Possession
	Migrated Ability declarations from store actions.lua to dbstuff.lua
	Noticed that Marksmanship is using the same code as studios, thus learning is limited by level
		This was not intended...but...I think I'll leave it that way.

Challenge Quests
	Schools are now *destroyed* when you defeat them

Stores/actions
	Cleaned up the clutter, a bit
	removed bounty quest action

Misc
	Sumo wrestlers now eat more
	Cleaned up calc some

Combat
	Added in paired weapons formulas

REVERT
	LUA error on startup, coldn't find it. Reverted.

Monsters
	Added some ninja monster 'spells': poisoned darts,blindness powder, throw shuriken
	Made Hamato Yoshi...tough.

Maps
	Put in some placeholder maps for the challenge quests

August 17, 2006 V 0.3.1

Items
	Items that logically should stack can now stack
	Removed 'potion of' from potions

Revert
	Yet Another Revert. About three hours gone

Bugfixes
	Nakamra once again appears in the Karate Studio

Restored
	The Serpent's Path, and related terrain features

Monsters
	Added Kami/Kaoi
	Added The North Kaio
	Added a FLAG_TAUNT (not implemented)

Constructing the Cosmos
	Woohoo! Building the North Kaio's Planet, placing on 'wilderness' map, and connecting
	to earth via the Serpent's Path

August 18, 2006 V 0.3.2

New Monsters
	Mr Popo, Bubbles the Monkey
	Various Red Ribbon Army grunts

Map
	Redesigning maps to allow for expansion

YET ANOTHER REVERT!!!
	GGRRRRR!!!! Add dungeons and suddenly no dungeon anywhere in the world that has a unique
	in it will load. 

	Started putting things back

Bad
	Hmm. Just had a horrifying realization. For...WEEKS...there's been a LUA error that only
	appears if I exit the game in wizard mode. Something about can't find a path. I had assumed that
	it was because I was adding in saved dungeon levels, and related to the ~ menu bug. To check,
	though I just made the Barrow Downs a SAVE dungeon in the ToME module...and the message doesn't
	appear. Oh, dear. :( (Onthe bright side, this doesn't happen in the new Muscle Tower below)

Muscle tower
	Added some RRA soliders and Muscle Tower
	New Theme: THEME_BALLISTICS
	New Uniques: Color Violet, Colonel Silver, Liet. Green.
	Couple new monster sbility types

Alignment
	Basic implementation of alignment

Map
	Placed the Buddhist Temple. a few monks, and moved the Serpent's Path inside it

August 19, 2006 V 0.3.3

Misc
	Placed the Rabbit Hole
	New unique: Umigame
	Bubbles the Monkey is now a Quadruped, not a God :)
	Added locked doors in front of the Serpent's Path
	Changed descriptions on the Dragonballs
	Buddhist Monks now explicity describe the exact locaton of the super-secret-hidden Serpent's Path
	Added a cute warning sign to the path
	New Uniques: Princess Snake and King Yemma
	New Ability: Kamehameha
	Rosshi can now teach Chi skill
	New monster: Aru Villager
	New Uniques: Ginkako and Kinkaku the thugs
	New Uniques: Seargent Murasaki, General White, General Blue, Adjutant Black, Commander Red
	New Unique: Captain Yellow
	Alignement now slightly more implemented
	Rearranged the display

Hell
	Deep Lava now actually does damage
	Built Hell
	New Uniques: Dabura, Hildegarn

More Misc
	The falling into Hell warning now says that falling is 'bad' instead of 'bsd.' :)
	New Item: Senzu Bean
	Placed Korin Tower, added Level 1 map

Skills
	Woohoo! Implemented the Chi learning system

Monsters
	Fixed Demons, added some flags

August 20, 2006 V 0.3.4

	Buddhist Temple is now integrated into the Serpent's dungeon
	New Unique: Krillan
	Completed alignment
	Potion desc apparantly broken from a revert, half finished...eliminated the desc so no crash
	New Unique: Kami
	Kami, Mr. Popo, Yemma and the North Kaio now teach Chi skills
	Placed Bubbles on the Kaio's planet
	Wizards can once again fly through space
	Fixed Serpent/Buddhist/Kaio connection
	Changes to FEAT_DIM_SPACE
	YES!!! Implemented falling to Hell! :P
	Basic implementation of Demon Comic Dialogue. :)
	Basic carry-over of DCD into post-death :)
	Spirits can neither pick up nor wield items :)
	Talking to the demons now carried over the Comic dialogue :)

August 21, 2006 V 0.4.0 Implementation of Chi

	Added the various Chi-Gung abilities and related variables
	Renamed Chi-Attack to Chi-Offense (to match Chi-Defense)
	(There are now 155 skill points with of Abilities that may be learned)
		EDIT: 158 now that swimming is 6)
	Rule Change: Characters with Willpower >= 20 can function as spirits
	Rule Chenge: When dead, hp = willpower * level
	New Item: Manual for the Recently Deceased :)
	Made BOSS_RABBIT quest functional
	OOLONG quest is now issuable, but not functional
	(Wow! This game is hard!)
	Bugfix: Potions flavours are incorrect, but no longer crash, and other desc's work
	Bugfix: If kill moster with first blow, second blow doesn't continue anyway
	You now actually have to LEARN abilties to use them, not just be able to
	(Yay! Last of 'new since V024 bugs are fixed!)
	Charsheet now shows damage range for weapons
	World Tournament completely redesigned

August 22, 2006 V 0.4.1

	Implemented caffiene (not sure I want to use this, but it was original intent)
	Fixed a bug that caused an insta-crash if attacking -1, 1
	Come morning: "Today is the nth day of, etc." instead of "the nth day of"
	Replaced town map file borders with #'s. Apparantly there's a buffer line.
	New Items: Earmuffs, earplugs
	Moved TECH_REQUIRE checks to dbstuff.lua, no longer done individually
	Some minor alloc() tweaks. 5 zeni circuit componenets are no longer level 10 items
	Removed Bacterium from WT lineup
	Removed Riding skill (Woohoo! That's the LAST of the old ToME skils! Yay!)
	Temporarily made Rosshi not Unique, to workaround the ~file engine bug (known)
	HACK: Rosshi's quest is sort of almost kind of functional in a way, almost
	Swimming now costs 6 skill points (Hey, it's useful!)
	TKD and Kickboxing Challenge Quests now function correctly and are completable
	Added several item types to stores
	Restricted women's clothing to women only
	Starting to rework charsheet resistances display to show in %'s
	Some Minor rebalancing of armor AC and resistances
	Purged the old shields
	New Items: Medium Weight Gi, Ski Gloves, flak vest, flak jacket, crocodile boots
	New Items: Leather trenchcoat, australian duster, riot shield, leather shield
	Added items to stores for example: the gunstore now sells bullets :)
	Road to Aru Village --> Aru Village
	Eliminated the old World Tournament stores and related
	Added shovels to mall
	gp --> zn in stores
	Made the monsters in the sewers and rabbit hole slightly less viscious. Hopefully.
	Muscle Tower is now levels 6-12, adjusted RRA monsters & equip allocs
	General cleanup for release

August 24, 2006 V 0.4.2 Third Release

	Negative combat damage is now set to zero. (I was healing college students!)
	New resist types: radiation, mental (still need disease and drain)
	Eliminated character sheet pages 2 and 6
	Monsters in world tournament are now immediately visible
	Pizza kitchen now deducts zeni properly
	Bugfix: North Kaio's Planet is available again
	Completely reworked challenge quests.
	Added Cell
	Kickboxing and TKD Challenge Rewards now work

August 25, 2006 V 0.4.3

	Increase HP_REGEN rate to 300
	Chi Regen now tied to RGEN skill --> 1 Regen = 1chi/50 turns. 100 Regen = 2Chi/turn
	Workaround for Engine secret door bug. Curiously, it makes things as desired, and I dont' know why
	Started eliminating unused FEAT's
	Commented out all traps which called spells that no longer exist
	Consolidated all signposts, using on_walk for content
	Shrunk dungeon feat file from 34K to 21K. I think this shortened map load times by a good second or two
	King Mouse now drops his sword. (Wow! The Dancer is an extremely viable class.)
	Now possible to complete the Missing Dancers quest
	Serpent's Path now hidden behind a secret door
	Ninja Duel now generates random traps, and generally made nastier
	Added reward abilities for Sumo/Judo challenge Quests: Immovability and Throw
	Enabled fleeing from Challenge Quests, along with the negative repercussions
	Added Oolong's Castle, Oolong himself, and Aru villagers

August 26, 2006 V 0.4.4

	New Dungeon: RRA's Underwater Cavern, related monsters and object theme
	Finished Korin Tower, added Korin, his house, and the roof
	Made the RRA a bit tougher
	Nyoibo-stuff
	Partially implemented afterlife
	Eliminated rubble from Muscle Tower

August 27, 2006 V 0.4.5

	Technology skill requirements now displayed in object descriptions
	Implemented the DBT ID system
	Implemented a sketchy, but sort of functional workaround for the Galadriel Shopping Spree bug

August 29, 2006 V 0.4.6

	No longer using the default ability system, workaround for 'Too many abilities' bug reported by NerdanelVampire
	Barely started an entirely new character sheet
	Wt Ticket Girl now correctly gives a brochure
	Manually place character when exiting a teleport-only dungeon (Challenge Quests)
	Yamcha back on the map
	Monsters no longer drop treasure or corpses in the World Tournament
	Uniques (who are actually killed, not just defeated) ALWAYS drop corpses (for collectors)
	Killing Yamcha resolves the Bridge Bandit quest
	Added professional affiliations to the new character sheet
	Encumberance math made meaningful: Now, every 5 pounds over limit reduces speed by 1, starting at .1 pounds over
	Flashlights now lose charge over time
	Fixed the ID system
	Implemented laser pointers
	Implemented WT disqualify for illegal equipment use
	new Item: First Aid Kit
	Dropped regen rate to 200
	I *think* I fixed the "(y/n) off the screen" bug as reported by NerdanelVampire
	Umm...fixed weight allowance. For real this time. (-17 speed carrying clothes, shoes and a few parchments?)
	Minor Acupuncture cleanup
	Implemented NEW dialogue system
	Extensive really cool Dr Gero Storyline development

August 30, 2006 V 0.4.7

	Changed some FEAT's to strchar(127) (No high ascii?)
	Introduced Dr. Briefs

September 1, 2006 V 0.4.8

NOTE: Three days spent trying to upgrade to the new alpha5, to no avail. Waiting for to chance to ask the
mailling list.

	Put together a nifty intro screen
	Filled out Briefs dialogue by about 8K, incorporated some quests

September 2, 2006 V 0.4.9

	Rearranged northeast map, placed Yoshi's and Pilaf's Castle
	Added the RRA Guardsmen
	New special level: Tower Headquarters
	Some monsters now drop Dragonballs

September 4, 2006 V0.4.10
	New Map: Pilaf's Castle
	New Uniques: Emperor Pilaf, Shuu and Mai
	New Factions: RRA and Pilaf
	Wow...kind of went overboard, and added a 42K dialogue for Pilaf/Shuu/Mai
	New: Joe and Joesephine, Aru Village
	Implemented 'Thugs' Quest

September 5, 2006 V0.5.0 Fourth Release
	Converted to alpha5!!!
		After receiving an offer for help from DarkGod, I was cleaning up and prepping a copy to send to him
		and in the process found the problem: it seems the symbiote carry slot has been floating around all
		this time in display.lua, and I neglected to remove it when the CARRY slot went away. Why this
		caused a random number of errors with every step I'm not sure...I'd have thought one when the
		display was called, but hey...it works! Yay! Thank you everyone!

	Redirected 'Y' to point to DBTCHAT so I can properly allow attacking friendly monsters
	Completely redesigned the Chi enrollment and skill gain system, gave it its own function

	Misc cleanup for fourth release

	Umm...townspeople no longer have a 99.9% chance of dropping Dragonballs. :/

September 7, 2006 V0.5.1

	Bibidi's Spaceshop town map
	Fixed Briefs Dialogue and item handover
	Wow! As per DarkGod's input, renamed dam variables is combat.lua and designer thwack-it messages now work! Yay!
	Decimals mods in learn_chi now display correctly (May also have tweaked some other things in dbtstuff...)
	Items now identify_fully Yay!

September 8, 2006 V0.5.2

	New Items: Panzer Faust, Denshi Jar
	Additional work on the Briefs random quests
	Added a function to check if the player is on earth
	New items: Megaphone, Road Flare, Fire Extinguisher
	Added EXPLOSIVE flag, eliminated NEVER_ID
	Added some ego types...but how do we actually create them?

	ADDED AN ERROR LOG FROM COPY ON THE WIKI! WOW!!!
	It is SOOOOO much easier to have a little list pop up and say "Gee, Bucket Man...you have an error! It appears
	to be that you forgot to remove a reference to TV_WAND from the flavours file. That's not so good. Maybe you
	should fix that?"

	Wow. Do you guys realize that up 'til now I've been debugging by doing things like removing systems...loading
	DBT and seeing if the error still occurs...narrow it down to a file...comment out half the file...load up DBT...
	rise, lather, repeat until I track it down to a line? Wow! This is great! Thank you!

	(Sigh...and after an hour of just trying to pull a monster name from a m_idx....*shrug* Stuff that works in
	some places sometimes just don't work elsewhere. It's really frustrating not havign the slightest clue what
	is really going on.)

	Disallowed Compass/GPS/Cellphone/Laptop when not on earth

	Spent 2.5 hours to conclude THAT LUA IS STUPID!!!!!!!

	Added a Seiyan name generator
	Placement when transitioning between fixed dungeon levels is now correct
	Added Radditz Dialogue and Impending Doom quest	

September 9, 2006 V0.5.3

	Eliminated: Mushrooms, Cloaks of Mimicry
	Electronics now have a 'flavour'
	Trimmed down the rings list
	Mount --> capsule
	Implemented Vehicles
	Placed Capsule bikes & motorcycle helmets at capsule corp (Wow, that's been pending a while)
	Generally cleaned up help
	Added: Planet 79
	More work on Rosshi Dialogue
	Added Radditz/Vegita/Freeza to Chi Master list
	Made the Nyoi-bo slightly more functional
	Re-enabled the Quest menu, set up starter quests
	Map Changes
	Added Mr. Satan's Estate
	Added some Uniques: Mr. Satan, Freeza, Tama, Iruka, Seargent Metallic, Hasuki, Tao Pai Pai
	Added a 'safe zone' spaceport on planet 79 (though only semi-safe)

September 10, 2006 V0.5.4

	Akira dialogue, Sushi quest, delivery boy quest, sushi duel

September 11, 2006 V0.5.5

	New monsters: Leonardo, Donatello, Michaelangelo, Raphael, Splinter, Shredder, Shenron, Space Debris
	New monsters: Androids: #8, #16, #17, #18, #19, #20
	No aligment change for winning tournament duels
	Radditz now actually uses your Seiyan name
	Gave resistances to monsters
	RRA Supreme HeadQuarters and related dialogue and quests

September 13, 2006 V0.5.6

	Added placeholders for Buruma and Dragon Radar
	Moved Whirligigs from Uniques to Androids
	Added Freeza Spaceship
	Marcos moved to dialogue
	Bunches of minor cosmetic tweaks
	Started capsules...is it possible to implement as intended?
	Made Briefs random quests actually work
	Player in now informed when he can re-enroll for new classes
	Fixed gender pronouns in DCD and Gero dialogue
	Tweaked movement mode math
	Added some Tournament fighters
	Fixed Kami's Lookout
	YES!!! IMPLEMENTED CAPSULES!!!
	Additional work on Briefs dialogue
	THEME_RRA now level checks

September 14, 2006 V0.5.7 Fifth Release

	Dancers now have innate free action
	fugu now has a poisoning chance
	Added faction_neutral handling
	New unique: Snuggles, the 9-headed hydra
	Oolong dialogue
	Migrated the various dojo/dball/etc data structures into a more logical format
	General preparation for release

September 16, 2006 V0.5.8

	Set up location checker
	Set up for level feelings
	Cleaned up Briefs Random quests
	Began Implementing Technomancy
	Assigned ingredients for everything
	Restored TV/SV Battery? When did that go away?
	Added a placeholder for Trunks
	Korin Tower is now accessible to anyone, but the climb is very tiring
	Cleaned up DCD
	Added Korin dialogue, explains the Celestial Hierarchy
	Changed shape of Radditz WT blast
	Added on_walk for Kickboxing/TKD closed
	Gym/Library now allows once per 10 levels rather than 10 times per one level :)?

September 17, 2006 V0.5.9

	Cleaned up dialogue some (still much to go)
	New: Briefs Tourny reward quest, and corresponding reward artifact
	Fixed the Underwater Caves special level, it was broken
	Can no longer open/close doors while riding a motorcycle	
	New Dungeon: Volcano on Fire Mountain

September 19, 2006 V0.6.0

	Rebalanced allocs and object themes
	Implemented charge use and refueling: flashlightes, megaphones, SCUBA gear, fire extinguishers, etc.
	Basic implementation of Marksmanship
	Fixed a rather unfortunate insta-crash bug related to THEME_RRA and nightvision/infrared goggles
	Purged a bunch of unused trap types
	Added placeholders for Videl, Chichi, Ox King and Bra
	Added Mount Frypan, Ring of Fire quest, and the exterior of the Ox Kings castle

September 21, 2006 V0.6.1

	Implemented ballistic plates
	Added in Hikui bird and cave
	Restored monster breath attacks
	Added some cute animals
	Added catnip (what's the give hook so we can give it to kitties?)
	Added Fan Lady
	Changed store display settings
	Purged: Land of Rhun dungeon generation, wilderness ambushes
	Purged unused monster attack types
	Fixed stat drain
	Gender noun assignment moved to hook
	Dialogue migrated to its own subsystem

September 22, 2006 V0.6.2

	New items: sumo suit, sparring gear, kama, paint ball mask, infantry helmet, cape
	Fixed some incorrect wield slots
	Added bhand, crush, slash, pierce resists to display
	Basic implementation of faction attack handler
	Added the End-Game Uniques: Buu, Evil Buu, Good Buu (and some absolutely nasty spells to match)
	Added placeholders for the end-game quests
	Placed Buruma, cleaned up wilderness placement
	Kaio's Planet now has increased gravity

September 23, 2006 V0.6.3

	Spent about four hours fixing the bugs I created yesterday
	Cleaned up Rosshi dialogue
	Duster/Trenchcoat moved to cloaks
	Added Babidi, Piccolo, Demon King Piccolo
	Added placeholders for the eight or so MAJOR dialogues I still need
	Haha! fixnotes.txt down to 7K!
	Technomancy about 1/3 done: up to: can dismantle items

September 24, 2006 V0.6.4

	Added: Bojack, Chaozu
	Fleshed out Imelda dialogue, slightly
	Expanded on Technomancy
	Added a placeholder for the 22 corruptions

September 26, 2006 V0.6.5

	Rebalanced dungeon leveling
	Entrance to the Serpent's Lair from the North Kaio's planet no longer says 'entering Buddhist Temple'
	Added Bear Cave
	Purged old dball_data.ab_ references
	Rebalanced RRA again. They keep getting tougher.
	Implemented Sumo Immovability (though nothing can teleport the character as of yet)


*** Begin new version numbering ***

September 28, 2006

	I feel like I'm running out of version numbers, so I'm changing the convention.
	I'm still going to list dates, but I'm only going to increment number when I feel
	like it instead of every 'day' I change something.

	Moved to alpha7
	Resists are now cumulative

September 29, 2006

	Added a Capsule Corp 'about us' dialogue	
	Hanger now refreshes the first time you buy-in
	Hid the abilities
	Implemented SCUBA gear

September 30, 2006

	New item type: Bracers	
	Added money to some themes
	Implemented map wrap!
	Massive, tremendous map changes to accomodate map wrap
	Assigned a zillion or so ai's
	Redesigned the Bridge Bandit situation
	Tohit/dam bonuses can now be made to apply only to certain combat modes
	Implemented tohit and dam bonuses for equipment: Yay!
	Pasted together an ai for the RRA
	Kind of sort of almost implemented spaceships a little bit

Oct 1, 2006

	Mountain Lion quest
	Deep water now properly blocks monsters

Oct 2, 2006

	World Tournament monsters now delete when Tournament is lost
	Fixed Mountain Lion quest
	Wall-mount cameras now spawn in Muscle Tower
	Adjusted gold drop rates

*** Release Version 0.6.6 ***

Oct 2, 2006

	Dialogue options that are only visible to characters with high charisma are now marked (Persuade)
	New special level: Mr Satan's training room
	New ability: Martial Arts Sushi Eating
	New dialogue: Mr. Satan
	Clarified dragonball drop system
	New TVAL: Misc
	New item: Mr. Satan's Autograph
	Finished quests: electronic stimulator, martial arts delivery service
	Added a semi-functional DBt ID system hook.OBJECT_DESC

Oct 3, 2006

	Cleaned up the gate to Mr. Satan's Estate
	DBTChat now allows diagonal conversations, and is about 12 lines smaller

Oct 4, 2006

	Sumo Suit --> Mawashi
	Honda now only accepts male studentsa
	Ballet is now +.1 con, +.2 dex instead of +.2 con, +.1 dex
	Korin's Celestial dissertation now mentions the Kaioshin
	Excessive Nyoi-vaulting now delivers falling damage
	Items capitalization defaults to ALL
	Cleaned up afterlife slightly

*** Calling this V.0.6.7 ***

	Implemented Martial Arts Eating!
	hunger.lua --> dbthunger.lua, general tweaks, thematic messages, etc.

Oct 5, 2006

	Added to Pilaf dialogue
	Items now check id when picked up, so no more dropping stuff to group like items
	New: THEME_POLICE
	Filled in some missed monster drop themes
	Fixed caffeine
	Added Uniques: Guldo, Captain Ginyu, Burtur, Geice, Recoome
	Rule Change: Students of Ninjutsu no longer lose faction standing with 'good guys'
	Added: Swordsmith, Manufacturing Plant, Museum
	Replaced non-functional RRA map.RANDOM monsters with some fixed ones
	New Map: Juvinile Playground
	Basic set up of the Foot Clan dungeon and monsters
	Implemented Chi Bursts

Oct 6, 2006

	Extensive development of the ninja quest tree
	Migrated uniques map.symbols out of the default symbols file
	Monsters now have two AI's. The default, and the second is when they've been attacked
	Fixed the various ai's, I think
	Purged ego's and mimics from the default monster drop generator
	Fixed the Dragonball Drop System (and no more infinite dragonballs)
	Implemented the Dragon Radar

*** Calling this V.0.6.8

Oct 7, 2006

	Purged /file
	It is no longer possible to challenge instructors more than once
	Customized studio maps for: karate, kungfu, taekwondo, kickboxing
	Store actions severely restricted to discarnate spirits
	Set up the basic infrastructure for using dragonballs
	Tweaked reload/refill rules
	New: Inline skates
	Reload/Refill now consume energy
	Marksmanship Changes:
		If first hand guns a monster, second hand gun doesn't fire
		'Out of ammo' messages are now correct
		Reloading now consumes energy
		Firing now consumes energy more correctly
		Weapon difficulty penalties are now applied to to_hit numbers
	Resistances are no longer obvious()
	Some more work on the Foot/Goods/Ninja/Shredder quest tree and related special levels
	Added: Fans, Bansho fan
	Added: The East Kaioshin
	Added another 6K to the Pilaf dialogue, and two more 'joke' quests

Oct 8, 2006

	Implemented 'Execute...you?' quest. :)
	Added an atra 15K or so to the Pilaf dialogue (Almost done!)

Oct 10, 2006

	Fixed Gym/Library quest texts, and level updates
	Fixed 'Challenge studio without taking challenge quest'
	Added Placeholders for: Planet Namek, the Ruins of Planet Plant, Babidi's Spaceship
	Eliminated the rod of house summoning
	Rearranged the Galaxy
	Implemented Planetary Teleport
	Implemented regular Teleport
	Added about 10K of dialogue to the Oolong quest tree
	Additional development of The Foot Lair

Oct 13, 2006

	Aded placeholder dialogues for the remaining four Chi instructors
	Implemented 'past due' for Pilot's Club membership
	Implemented Chi 'Cure Conditions'

*** Calling this V.0.6.9

	Changed dialogue: Now must press 'space' to continue rather than any key

Oct 14, 2006

	Stores now ID things when you sell them
	Implemented Chi Healing
	Cleaned up calc some
	Removed TV_DIGGER and TV_SPIKE
	Increased regen rates (Looks like the bug has been fixed since alpha4)
	Dead people can no longer eat or drink
	Skill/Lev is now 6
	Cleaned up Self_knowledge slightly
	Implemented metal detectors as 'detect traps' Not original plan...but, *shrug*
	Basic Implementation of fan lady
	Imelda now gives a quest reward
	Choose a Studio quest description now updates with each subsequent training
	New item: Iron fans
	Fixed Paired Weapon wielding
	Maglights now display damage

Oct 15, 2006

	Basic implementation of non-standard ammunition
	Began migrating DBT firearm combat into its own subsystem
	ELIMINATED: trapkits, chests
	Corpses no longer drop in the World Tournament
	Dragonball ID system migrated to its own subsystem
	ELIMINATED: Void jumpgates, fountains
	World Tournament handling revisions
	Treasure no longer drops in the WT
	Food: Rotten meat now poisons; removed skeleton references from food
	Fan lady can now make the Bansho fan

Oct 16, 2006

	Nyoibo can no longer teleport through walls
	Fan lady can now make iron fans
	Fortune cookies now give fortunes
	Basic implementation of wishing
	Basic Impementation of the Chi: Constant Effect System
	Implemented: Battle Aura, Haste, Regeneration, Flight
	Rebalanced wishing for willpower
	Added placeholder for Spirit Bomb

(Note: This would be V.0.8.4 by the old numbering system)

Oct 17, 2006 (085)

	Only a single AC is displayed, no more 0 + 23
	Cleaned up flavours a bit
	Amulets -> Bracelets; NECK -> WRIST
	Implemented watches
	Eliminated THEME_MAGIC
	Eliminated QUIVER and AMMO slots
	Added Chemistry flavours
	Enrollment progression now allows second class at level 15

*** Calling this V.0.7.0

Oct 19, 2006 (086)

	Implemented wishing for items
	Implemented travel wishes
	New artifact: Ruby Slippers
	Added a wish spoiler
	Implemented poisoning
	Implemented food poisoning
	Added some help files
	Implemented Immortality
	Doubled all Chi modifier gains
	Implemented the metal detector properly
	Implemented: Flame Thrower, Propane Tank
	new: Radiation suit, EVA suit, gas mask
	Clarified Oolong Quest slightly, and Marcos now gives a quest reward
	Clarified Yamcha Quest

Oct 20, 2006 Dragonball T Version 0.7.1 (087)

	General cleanup for release
	Reworked Red Ribbon Army drop themes
	Added to Widget dialogue
	Implemented Widgets

Oct 22, 2006

	Oops. Restored the Northwest section of earth.
	Rebalanced schools just a bit
	Added a decriptive module blurb

Oct 23, 2006 2006 Dragonball T Version 0.7.2

	Oops. Briefs 'Technical Assistant' quest is once again completeable

------------------------------------------------------------
Changes from previous Version 0.7.2 to current Version 0.7.5
------------------------------------------------------------
Nov 11, 2006
	Wow! It's been weeks since I've touched Dragonball. Ok.
	Beefed up the Challenge Quest Uniques, and upped the Quests themselves to level 20 quests
	Excellent! Started migrating 'house' dungeons to PERSISTENT=true Yay! Thank you, DarkGod!
	Extended max level and stats to 100
	Cleaned up display slightly
	You may now take classes every ten levels instead of every 15
	XP gain for taking classes now increases with subsequent classes: 10 * no of classes: 10, 20, 30, etc.
	New item: MRE

Nov 17, 2006
	Bridge Bandit quest now completes if you kill Yamcha
	Fixed fans: they're now equippable
	Tinkered unsuccesfully with check_faction()
	Completely revamped the World Tournament Opponent selection process
	WT Audience no longer chases the character
	Migrated worldtour to dball_data

Nov 26, 2006
	Added babyface/score information
	Rule Change: No more waiting for classes
	Alpha 11: Added dam.BLIND
	Rebalanced classes slightly

Nov 27, 2006
	Dialogue subsystem now accepts ANY character instead of just numbers (From Bard's Tale)
	Moved dialogues from numbers to letters
	Implemented Technomancy: 'View recipe'

Nov 28, 2006
	Wizards now know all technomancy recipes

Nov 29, 2006
	Removed RES_BLIND to be compatible with alpha11
	Implemented Technomancy construction (Yay!)
	Implemented catnip
	You can now give senzu beans to companions to heal them
	Added wedding rings

Dec 1, 2006
	General Cleanup for release
	General compatibility testing for alpha11
	Rearranged birth clearing into BIRTH_PRE. It still doesn't work. *shrug* It's possible it's just the CALC hook in dbtstuff that handles stats, but this is a low priority for me. All of this shuffling for monster memory just isn't that important at this stage.

--------------------------------------------
Changes from Version 0.7.5 to Version 0.7.6:
--------------------------------------------
Dec 3, 2006
	Whoops. Fixed the RES_BLIND issue reported by NerdanelVampire on the Wiki
	Fixed save file data clearing at birth

--------------------------------------------
Changes from Version 0.7.6 to Version 0.7.7:
--------------------------------------------

Tuesday, Dec 12, 2006
* Hack:	Temporarily eliminated duplicate dragonball checking
	This effectively trades the BIG bug, of more or less being
	unable to collect the dragonballs for the relatively LITTLE
	bug of being able to find duplicates of the same dragonball,
	as well as being able to collect more than seven at a time.
	So, feel free to throw away, sell and abandon dragonballs
	to your hearts content. You will ALWAYS be able to find them
	again.
* Added a 'not implemented' level feeling to the Turtles lair
* Commented out Splinters dialogue, replaced with 'Implement me'
* Hack: Added a temporary solution for the store refresh problem
* Iruka, Buruma and Lunch no longer spawn, so people won't
	encounter them and expect them to work properly
* Fixed about twenty items that weren't properly appearing in stores
	SDL version seems to have better error logging
* World Tournament disqualification bugfixes/changes:
	* Landing a hit with a poisoned weapon now disqualifies you
	* Attempting to fire a firearm AT ALL during the Tournament
	  disqualifies you. Don't even think about using splash damage
	  from your bazooka to win a round.
	* However, ANYTHING GOES in a battle to the death: Poison, firearms,
	  tools, summoned friends...anything you'd like. (Note: this is
	  fine for the duels with Androids 16 and 17, but may have to be
	  reconsidered for Demon King Piccolo)
	* Except: You may no longer exit the WT building during
	  fights to the death
	* Monsters are now deleted if you are disqualified. No more
	  running out of the ring and dying anyway. Note that you can
	  still die from secondary effects.
* In theory, you should no longer fight the same Unique multiple times
	in different Tournament rounds
* The WT Backstage Guard can speak again
* The WT Ticket girl no longer generates 'name' errors
* Added a placeholder so people may study Kendo
* Added help files: command list, abilities descriptions
* Adjusted barehanded skill gains from karate/taekwondo
* Revamped the schools spoiler and made it current
* Oolong:
	* Once the village girls have been 'sent away' they no longer
	  spawn in the castle
	* Marcos now rewards you properly if you kill Oolong
	* Castle Oolong is no longer a 'saved' level, so no more storing
	  equipment there.
	* Oolong quest dialogue no longer re-writes itself to previous
	  quest states if you talk to the village girls a second time
	  after informing Marcos of what's going on
	* If you marry Oolong:
		* He now gives you a ring
		* His castle becomes a home

Wednesday, Dec 13, 2006

* Afterlife:
	* Hunger display no longer appears when dead
	* HP are now recalculated instantly upon death
* Fixed Imelda's Shoe problem, I think...
* I think I've fixed the Mr. Satan bug with the World Tournament
* Wishing:
	* Fixed a nasty bug which caused certain skills in some cases to
	  be SET to an amount, instead of being INCREMENTED by that amount. Oops.
	* Implemented some new wish types
	* Here's the big one: Shenron now (generally) asks for confirmation of
	  your wish instead of just making a best guess and granting it blindly.
	  This was sort of a pain, and bloated the wishing script with about 15K
	  of totally redundant code and confirmation texts, but...no longer will
	  you wish for a stealth bomber and have your stealth skill increased.
	  Certain wish types (items, most notably) do not require confirmation.
	* Skill gain wishes are now rounded off. Instead of a 3.617 gain you'll
	  get 3.6. Obviously this does decrease the net value...but it's so much
	  prettier.
* Yawara and Honda no longer drop corpses when you defeat them in a 'friendly' match	  
* Implemented experience modifiers from weighted clothing
* Implemented marriage with Rosshi. (Though Rosshi's dialogue still has a lot of
  unimplemented branches. If you want to get married, marry Oolong. He's less buggy.)

Wednesday, Dec 13, 2006
* Dr. Briefs' store is now a dungeon. This works around the Briefs dialogue
  overflow error, and allows me to place Tama, as well as some other cute tidbits
* Added Tama's Quest :)
* Adjusted treatment of catnip
* Implemented the muscle stimulator

Saturday, Dec 16, 2006
* Updated to alpha12
* Fixed the skill overage bug (apparantly skill_overage isn't being used anymore)
* It is now possible for evil characters to prematurely bring on the arrival on Androids 16 and 17
* Fixed the store dialogue bug (Completely, I *think*)
* Started resizing the various dialogues for 24x80 character displays
* Cleaned up some dialogue dead-ends
* Net about 30K more dialogue since last release
* Fixed some bugs with Technomancy
* ...ok...no more duplicate WT opponents. No, really! (I think...)
* No more Dragonballs, or item drops in WT matches, either.
* Friendly Uniques are now set to the 'Duel' faction for WT matches

Sunday, Dec 17, 2006
* Fixed an absolutely nasty bug that caused Dancers save files to fail to load. :/
* Juvinile Playground is now a "decaying" SAVE_LEVEL
* Foot Ninja now drop items
* Yawara may no longer participate in the Tournament if her wrist is broken
* The Ninjutsu school now sells poison
* Temporarily disabled Rosshi's Kame house (alpha12 bug???)
* Some general cleanup of monsters, levels and ai's relating to Dr Gero
* Migrated a few more special levels to be new alpha12-style decay levels
* Mai and Shuu can move now
* Temporarily allowed Shenronto be summoned so long as you have SEVEN dragonballs, whether
  or not they are seven UNIQUE dragonballs.
* Fixed a bug that allowed infinite wishes from a single summoning. (Haha! Oops.)

--------------------------------------------
Changes from Version 0.7.7 to Version 0.7.8:
--------------------------------------------
Sunday, Dec 17, 2006

* Argggghhhh!!!! Fixed Imelda's shoe reward AGAIN!!!
* You no longer have to talk to Marcos multiple times to get his reward dialogue
  to increment properly
* You can now construct/disassemble road flares
* Korin:
	* Implemented Chi training sessions 2 and 3
	* Korin now correctly describes his specialty as 'Chi' not 'Defense'
* Added a Chi spoiler
* Disabled the North Kaio's house. It appears to be fatal-crash-bugged like
  Rosshi's. I don't understand why, and it's behaving oddly...and both locations
  were fine for alpha11. Curiously, if I swap map files, the dungeons work
  fine, and if I place the maps in another dungeon, they also work fine. This
  may be an engine bug.
* Marrying Oolong
	* Fixed the house. (This worked two days ago. What happened?)
	* Quest for Marcos now completes properly if you marry Oolong
	* The dialogue branch that allows you to marry Oolong is now a
	  (Persuade) branch. Sorry ladies...free house and magic weapon
          with zero risk at level one in thirty seconds was just too
	  much. You can still do it, you'll just need to find a way to
	  get 13 charisma. Shouldn't be difficult. You can even do it
	  at level one or two, you just have to do it on purpose.
* Pilaf:
	* Fixed two more text-overflows (at 24x80) in dialogue
	* For the RRA-interuption dialogue path, Mai and Shuu no longer
	  becomes hostile, and the RRA soldiers are no longer prevented
	  from shooting at you
* SUmo/Judo:
	* Multiple friendly duels no longer generate LUA errors
	* If you actually KILL Yawara or Honda, their schools now close
	* Hahaha!!! After an hour and a half, I think I finally have the
          Judo/Sumo quests working as intended. Of course, there are
	  something like 16 different ways it can work out, and changing
	  any one affects the others...so it's complicated. Easily
          possible I missed something. Guess we'll see.

Monday, Dec 18, 2006
* Customized the Duel vs Sumo map, complete with a cute little Easter egg :)
* Yawara now only closes her studio in shame if you go out of your way
  to escape the match. If you simpy exit the ring, you just lose the match.

--------------------------------------------
Changes from Version 0.7.8 to Version 0.7.9
--------------------------------------------
Tuesday, Dec 19, 2006

* Edits to the Mr Satan dialogue. Things have been rearranged. Don't count
  on the old dialogue rewards to be exactly what they used to be. Mr. Satan
  is a comic relief character. He longer teaches double attack. Other changes
  have been made as well. At the moment, it is still possible to talk him
  into giving you a dragonball, but this might change in the future.
* Alignment loss for evil dialogue choices have generally been increased
* Rule Change: If your alignment is less than -99, killing evil uniques no
  longer increases your alignment
* added about 7K dialogue

Tuesday, Dec 19, 2006
* World Tournament trophy is now ID'd
* It is now possible to complete the Briefs Tournament quest
* General cleanup, rearrangement, and rebalancing of some of the quests
  for Dr Briefs. For example:
	* No random quests issues while Martial Arts Delivery Service
          is pending
	* If you use Briefs to gain access to the Satan Estate, you no
          longer also receive Tech skills gains for the accompanying quest
	* If you fail the delivery quest, you can no longer receive random
          quests
	* Etc
	* Note: The Briefs Ballistic Bodyarmor quest tree is, and has
          ALWAYS been intended to be entirely mutually exclusive with
          the ENTIRE Briefs Tech branch. Even so, there have been
          several changes since the armor was introduced that probably
          make it unreasonably powerful. Muscle Tower is level 20-26
          instead of 10-15, and several uniques now exist who do slash
          damage. Might have to reconsider this one.

* Nakamura no longer teaches Martial Arts Sushi eating. If you already
  know Double Attack, instead, he increases your Barehand skill by +3, +.2
* Fixed the 'error in Briefs random quest' bug. Curiously, looking at
  the code, the bug should have popped up in 10% of all type 1 random quests
* Dialogue development of Videl and Buruma (incomplete, commented out
  in this release)

Wednesday, Dec 20, 2006
* Roads and buildings in town are now lit (Ack! Doesn't work!)
* Tuxedo's now increase charisma by 2

Thursday, Dec 21, 2006
* Made gold drops slightly more common in dungeons
* Basic Implementation of tohit/dam/ac bonuses on random treasure drops
* ID Checking now occurs for every item at time of creation
* Implemented Iaido
* Set of price mods by th/d/ac bonuses, but hook(OBJECT_VALUE appears
  not to function
* Tofu Sensei now properly teaches Acupuncture
* Updated a few of the book-n.txt parchments. (Several are OLD dating
  from DBT 3.x!)
* Swordsmith:
	* Can now 're-balance' blades for to-hit bonuses
	* May sharpen/balance to +1 starting at level 1, not at level 5
* Weapons:
	* Eliminated the 'can be used with two hands' display. It's not
          being used.
	* Fixed the poisoned weapon description
	* A single poison application now grants 5-7 uses, instead of 1-3
* Trunks will now teach the Paired Weapons ability to anyone, for free,
  provided they have a weapon skill of 50 or more
* Implemented stunning effects from entangling weapons

Friday, Dec 22, 2006
* Weapons:
	* Implemented vorpal weapons
	* New ability: Bleed attack
	* Weapons abilities now have skill minimums
* New item: Ofuda
* Musashi is now a unique and has his own cave
* ...added monster_effects...?
* Pffft. Dropped the Ring of Fire quest to level 16. You can walk right
  through the flames with 10 constitution and zero fire resistance at
  level 15. (Still can't get credit for completing the quest)
* It is now possible to raise/lower the drawbridge at Ox Castle

Sunday, Dec 24, 2006
* Yep...the dungeon crashing situation is definitely an engine bug.
  Set up a bizarre workaround for ROsshi's Kame house
* Motorcycles/Vehicles:
	* It is no longer possible to fight barehanded from a
          motorcycle
	* No AC bonuses from barehand or Dodge while riding
	* Only your right hand must be empty to ride
	* It IS now possible to fight with a single weapon or a
          firearm from a motorcycle
	* Doing so conveys a -30 to hit penalty
	* Vehicles may no longer navigate level transitions
	* You may no longer pick things up with riding (Except
          gold, for now...)
	* Motorcycles now provide light (Not a cone, sorry)
	* Movement mode modifiers are inoperative while riding
          (though you can still change your mode, and the display
          still shows)
	* Motorcycles are loud. While riding your stealth will be
          zero, and aggravate=true
* New Item: Ninja climbing claws (Hmm. They don't seem to work yet,
  though)
* Silk gloves --> +1 Chr
* New Unique: Wong-Fei Hong
* Wong-Fei Hong and Miyamoto Musashi may now participate in the
  World Tournament.
* Added an EMT to the World Tournament
* New Item: Ninja climbing Tabi (These also don't appear to work)
* Some development of the end-game quests
* Additional development of the Inner Sanctum map
* Bugfix: Dragonballs are now properly scattered after use

Wednesday, Dec 27, 2006
* Added an experimental retroactive skill system
* General preparation for release

--------------------------------------------                                   

Changes from Version 0.7.9 to Version 0.8.0                                    

--------------------------------------------                                   

Friday Dec 29, 2006                                                            

* Implementated a 'Story Mode' skill system that uses NO skill modifiers       

  (Chi Masters and Ninjutsu not implemented in story skillmode)                

* Two new barehanded abilities: Blocking, Tameshiware                          

  (Note that barehanded fighters must now learn blocking to gain their ac      

   bonus, and that Tameshiware is not implemented yet.)                        

* Corrected Briefs upgrade quest skill gain text                               

* Added an enrollment spoiler for story mode                                   

* Whoops! Eliminated a double entry for Oolong...could have odd                

  ramifications...                                                             

* Honda may no longer flee from the Sumo ring                                  

* The Nyoi-bo may now be used to thwap monsters at range                       

* Bazookas are basically functional again                                      

* Clarified 'unable to fight florentine' message                               

* Adjusted AC of a whole bunch of monsters. Waiting until level 20 to          

  spend skill points will be more difficult now                                

* Technomancy                                                                  

        * Added the default 20% base construction success rate. (Oops.)        

          Chance to build is now 20 + Construction skill - Item Difficulty     

        * Chance of explosive failure similarly adjusted                       

        * Ingredients are now 'used up' during construction                    

        * Removed debug display info during disassembly                        

* Fixed dragonball drops rates. The following monsters no longer drop          

  dragonballs:                                                                 

        * Space Debris                                                         

        * Children from marriage                                               

        * Monsters with PLANT or ANIMAL flags now default to zero chance       

          to drop (Unique plants and animals can still drop dragonballs)       

        * Mortal/Immortal checking should now be correct. (Immortal beings     

          do not bother with silly little things like dragonballs)             

* Implemented 'special case' alignment handling. For example, killing          

  children, Buddhist monks and starving college students is bad karma.         

* You may now toggle default attack/talk behavior under options '='            

* You now start with 5 skill points                                            


-------------------------------------------
Changes from Version 0.8.0 to Version 0.8.1 
-------------------------------------------
Sunday, December 31, 2006
* Data structure changes that should be totally invisible to the player
* Reworked Story mode skills and enrollments
         
                                                                               
Monday, Janurary 1, 2007
* New skill system now uses xp instead of skill points
* Fixed some leftover errors in dragonball drop rates
* Bonuses from equipment are no longer applied twice...I think
* Added abilities to  the skill system
* Eliminated about 10K of now-irrelevant code from dbtstuff.lua
* Eliminated a few now-irrelevant wish types
* General purge of old math-mode skill code
* Quest/Dialogue/Misc data relating to Dr's Briefs and Gero should be properly cleared
  with new games now
* Rule Change: First Aid kits now require knowledge of the First Aid ability, not
  tech skill
* Migrated instructor dialogues out of store actions and into dialogue and
  disabled the dialogues relating to abilities that are now standard class material
* Added the Robbins Foundation and YMCA
* Wine bottles should stack properly now
* Note: The Briefs random quest rewards are +1 for easy, and +1, +3, +5 to all, and the
  upgrade quest is +10 to all. So, playing a Technomancer should be considerably less
  painful now.
* Fixed the blindfold/earmuff swapping issue
* New artifacts: Daniel San's headband, Shaolin Soccer Ball, Ryoga's headband,
  Ryoga's Umbrella, Trunks' Sword, Purple Jade Badger, Golden Nimbus
* New Unique: Iron Monkey
* Monsters may no longer steal during the World Tournament
* Misc item changes:
	* Spears and iron fans are now bladed
	* New items: chinese rounded hammers, chainsaws, Seiyan battle jackets
	  blowtorch
	* Stun batons now, well...stun
* Fixed ai's on Planet 79
* Implemented the Bear Thief and his quest (Beware!!!)
* Implemented Hasuki, and his quest (Also Beware!!!)
* Town features are slightly more visible after dark
* It is now possible to actually LEARN abilities! Yay! (Apparantly it's .acquired)
* Pricing:
	* Each +1 increases an objects value by 10%
	* Each -1 decreases an objects value by 5%
	* Akira now properly gives discounts to people referred by Oolong
* Partial Implementation of Tameshiware

Tuesday, Janurary 2, 2007
* Added placeholders for: Yajirobe, Uranai Baba, Tenshinhan, Tsuru Seni'nin
* New artifact: Uranai Baba's Crystal Ball
* 'Fixed' the randomly spawning Gym 'bug' ('p' was my testing key.)
* Updated skill 'unhide/learning' for the new skill system
* Technomancers may now specify a quantity when disassembling items. Part scavenging
  and recipe learning will be rolled separately for each item
* It should be possible to deliver sushi to Mr Satan now
* Starving College students are now neutral to the player
* Temporary fix for the game locking up in Castle Pilaf and Muscle Tower. It seems to be
  related to the 'name' field. I've removed them. Now looking at them generates messages
  like 'You see stairs down' instead of 'You see the entrance to Castle Pilaf' but it
  doesn't lock. Good trade.
* Massive rearrangement of the monster distribution. Should be invisible to the player.
* Added the Frozen Wastes
* Sufficiently massive conceptual changes to the skill system that I'm not going to
  list them all. 'It's different'
* Wiped the old Chi training system, and associated dialogues
* Migrated Korin to the new system
* Scrapped Rosshi's dialogue and started over
* Dead characters of mid-range alignment are now properly sent to Emma Daio on the
  Serpent's Path
* Reworked the Daio's dialogue. He is no longer a Chi trainer.
* Fixed fugu
* Hildegarn/Dabura --> Goz/Mez
* Implemented a (Persuade) counter for character dumps (which appear to be engine-unimplemented)
* Tsuru Seni'nin and Mr. Popo can now train skills with the new system
* Mike Tyson's Gloves and Master Lee's Dobak artifacts now spawn randomly
* Death
	* Spirits may now walk through trees and mountains (not doors, yet)
	* Spirits may no longer participate in Tourny fights
	* Spirits may now pick up / wield artifacts
* Added Heaven

Thursday, Janurary 4, 2007
* Panwshop/RVac no longer offer free identification
* Most (not all) uniques now have light, so no more accidentally killing Fan Ladies
* Corrected to-hit calculations when fighting florentine
* Pawnshop and RVac no longer offer free ID
* Yamcha now becomes 'aggrressive' if you choose the 'attack' dialogue
* It is now possible to wish for a house
* 'Stolen Goods' quest now properly completes if you Persuade George for more money
* No more LUA error on the electronics store if it closes (How do you assign functions manually?)
* Tourny medic no longer disappears if you're disqualified
* Spatial Anamoly quest text fixed
* Restored Challenge Quests for Karate and Kung fu. They have NOT been balanced for the
  new system
* The Foot may now send assassins for the 'Being Watched' quest
* Stun Batons are now Technomancable
* New items: Taser, cattle prod
* Reworking of Rabbit Hole and Mr Satan's Estate
* Eliminated the Briefs 'easy' quests that were frustrating
* 3 of 5 polearms pick up +20 ac
* Acid damage is gone. Barehand generally merged with Crush.
* Oops! Purged old ToME damage types: nexus, force, chaos, disenchant, time, inertia, time
  gravity, mana, valinorean fire, darkfire, nature.
* Sneak movement mode is now an ability available to ninja

Thursday, Janurary 5, 2007
* Stealth equipment now directly increases Stealth, not your Stealth skill (No more free ID)
* Added a stealth display to the character sheet
* Added Pelt of the White Wolf

Sunday, January 7, 2007
* Re-tweaked the skill system
* Completed Musashi's dialogue. (Don't annoy Musashi...'it would be bad.')
* Wrote a basic skill spoiler	
* Rearranged the Challenge Quest placements and texts somewhat

-------------------------------------------
Changes from Version 0.8.1 to Version 0.8.2 
-------------------------------------------
Thursday, Janurary 11, 2007
* Cosmetic changes to Namek
* Added the Namekkian dragonballs
* Bugfixes from wiki reports:
	* YMCA: Swimming/Skating have separate keys to learn
	* Fixed Rosshi LUA/screen errors
	* Monsters should no longer spawn in Korin tower
	* Yamcha ai now properly runs from girls
* The enrollment system may now hide classes that are unavailable
* Dragonball thieves should now blink away more often
* Tameshiware --> Tameshiwari
* Muscle Stimulator, Gym and Library stat bonuses are now direct, no longer affect skill
* Increased Judo/Sumo stat requirements to intended values
* Partial development of the Yamcha quest
* It is now possible to marry Videl
* Ballet CQ migrated to new method
* Sumo/Judo now close properly once defeated

Friday, January 12, 2007
* Artifacts:
	* Appear more often
	* No longer randomly have penalties
	* No longer auto-id on generation
* Ego items: (Lots of changes, not going to itemize them all, but in particular:)
	* Many new ego types
	* Rule changes for weighted armor
	* Egos add to the required skill to identify
* Adjusted the displayed severity names of cuts
* Intelligence now helps with ID
* Defeating instructors in the Tournament no longer closes their schools
* The gunstore now buys guns and clips
* Extensive development of the Korin/Rosshi/UranaiBaba quest tree

Sunday, January 14, 2007
* Updated the help files somewhat
* Chi effect costs are no lonber / 1000 (oops...)
* Minor updates and bugfixes to the Chi system (Though obviously nobody has been using it.)
* Slight rebalancing of the skill numbers
* Added a bunch of ego types
* Bugfix: Android8 should now properly be removed when he self destructs
* Added a placeholder for jetpacks
* Implemented blueprints

Monday, January 15, 2007
* Further development of Namek
* Added regeneration to some monsters
* Closed about 20K worth of dead branches in the Mr Satan and Videl dialogues
* Bugfix: Wong Fei Hong may now appear in the Tournament
* Firearms now wake up sleeping monsters in los

Tuesday, January 16, 2007
* Cleaned up Uranai Baba Persuade thread
* Implemented silencers
* Good/Evil characters now go to Heaven/Hell
* Partial Implementation of Joesephine
* Now using my own test_hit math for monster combat

------------------------------------------------------------
Changes from Version 0.8.2 to Version 0.8.3
------------------------------------------------------------
Wednesday January 17, 2007
* Made combat messages more descriptive

Thursday, January 18, 2007
* Added Fencing
* Karate is now vs Kickboxing, Kungfu is now vs Fencing
* Wiki bugfixes
	* Hanger rental now becomes a house
	* It should now be possible to read blueprints
	* Guard should allow entrance to Satan Estate during appropriate quest
	* It should now be possible to leave after losing a WT match

Sunday, January 21, 2007
* Ninjutsu is gone
* Rule Change: Instructors accept challenges up until you win the Tournament
* No more Double Int bonuses from the library
* Sumo fighters now have to eat more, instead of more often

Tuesday, January 23, 2007
* Fixed a bunch of bugs from wiki/forum reports
* Redesigned Kami's Lookout based on the manga

Wednesday, January 24, 2007
* Rulechange: Falling from Korin Tower deposits you at the base, with damage
* Traps:
	* No more PERMA stat drain traps
	* Spirits and flyers no longer set off traps
	* Chance to disarm is now Int + Tech + Disassmebly
* Implemented riposte
* You may now fly over buildings
* Doors should be less common in the volcano
* Implemented jump
* General rebalancing of enrollment numbers
* Added placeholder scripts for Shredder/Splinter
* Slight development of the Piccolo thread
* More work on Goz and Mez
* General cleanup of the Challenge Quests

Thursday, January 25, 2007
* Fixed GPS
* Characters must be at least level 10 to challenge instructors
* Improved on the situation with Yamcha
* Help updates

Friday, January 26, 2007
* Fixed Goz and Mez. It is now possible to escape from Hell.
* Several monsters have acquired immunity to fear
* Fixed several monster placement bugs in the Tournament
* WT reward is only 100K now

Sunday, January 28, 2007
* Redesigned the Tech quests

Monday, January 29, 2007
* Some development of the Time travel plotline
-------------------------------------------
Changes from Version 0.8.3 to Version 0.8.4
-------------------------------------------
Tuesday January 30, 2007
* Oops. Android You quest now only occurs if you HAVEN'T spoken to Dr Briefs yet
* RUleChange: AC bonus from blocking will count for each hand as long as it is empty. You no longer need Double Attack.
* Balance: Reduced the cost of Blocking to 10 skillpoints
* You must now have studied at a school to receive a Challenge Quest from it
* Technomancers may now see what tool type an item requires by Inspecting it
* New wish type: To know everything about items
* Dragonflies can fly again
* Enabled wishes for death
* Starting stat range is now 6 to 14
* In theory, the Rabbit Hole will no longer generate stupid levels
* New ego: High capacity flashlights
* Generally made the Challenge Quests more robust
	* School cap increases is now totally a function of school closures
	  You need never be formally issued the quests
* Starting migrating Marksmanship over to the schools system

-------------------------------------------
changes from Version 0.8.4 to Version 0.8.5
-------------------------------------------
Thursday February 1, 2007
* Made a bunch of abilities available from Master Trainers
* chi
	* Enabled Aural Absorbtion effect
	* Doubled all chi regeneration rates
	* Halved drain rate of Battle Aura and Flight
	* Enabled chi based spaceflight
	* Constant effects now turn off when you've insufficient chi
	* No longer using a counter for chi (they were really annoying)
	* chi is now = Willpower * chi skill (Bigger numbers)
	* Surviving death now requires 300 max chi pool, not 20 willpower
	* You now regenerate chi even without any regeneration skill (slowly)

Sunday February 4, 2007
* Fixed some chi calculations
* Fixed lite effects
* Lite from battle aura now increases with chi pool
* Killing Kami now correctly renders the dragonballs inert	
* Added Capsule Spaceships
* Master Trainers may now increase skillcaps
* Skill wishes now also increase relavant cap
* Minor rearrangments on Kami's Lookout
* Buddhist secret door is now 'secret'
* Fixed weight corruptions when encapsulating items
* Krillan now teaches Double Attack and Blocking

Tuesday February 6, 2007
* Library/Gym level progression is now corect: 1, 5, 10, 15, etc
* Dialogue answers no longer 'skip letters'
* Jacque now has a custom map, no?
* Barehanded ability requirements adjusted
* Added a hotel in the airport
* TV_BOTTLE --> TV_SALVE
* Added blood coagulant and zheng gu shui root extract
* Some changes to flavours
* Dr Tofu's store is now better stocked
* Flame throwers now have directional muzzles instead of directional nuzzles :)
* Balance: First Aid kits are now deeper
* Added nailguns and nails
* Fantastically overpowered steel weapons should no longer spawn (I *think*)
   (For some reason ON_MAKE was being applied twice, so the damage calculation
   was benefitting from an additional multiple of 10 based on the weight increase)
* Rapiers are now 'bladed'
* Fixed Bear Thief/Hasuki

Wednesday February 7, 2007
* Firearms:
	* Implemented range to-hit penalties
	* Additional development of the ammo system (mostly invisible to player)
	* Standard rounds no longer receive armor piercing
	* New option: allow/disallow reloading when ammo remains
	  (You might want to reload a gun with a different ammo type)
* It is now possible to recharge maglights
* Lite fuel usage moved from MOVE to PROCESS_WORLD
* Jacque no longer sells to non-students
* Uniques no longer resist disintegration
* Implemented align/poison effects from eating corpses

Thursday February 8, 2007
* Runnign --> Running
* Mountain lions no longer spawn after quest completion
* Fixed several rather silly bugs relating to eating pizza
* In theory, doors should no longer spawn in the volcano
* Maglights may now be used as non-weapons by weapons fighters lacking
  the Paired Weapons ability

Saturday February 10, 2007
* Gahhhh! A bunch fo fatal crashes! The game won't even load! What happened?!?!?
* Reenabled preserve mode
* Fixed several bugs relating to placement in the universe
* Added a placeholder for the Potara Earings
* Capsules may no longer be encapsulated
-- * Imelda now rewards designer shoes instead of +to_a shoes (What? Does she???)
* Removed Bobidi's ship
* Further development of Namek land and quests
* Added placeholders for the Elders, Nail and Dende
* Developmnet on the Volcano
* You are no longer affected by gaze attacks while blind
* Smoothed out the experience ladder, and made the late game less ridiculous

	Lev	Previous	New		Multiplier
	5	70		100		Base
	10	380		370		~3.7
	15	1400		1300		~3.6
	20	4400		4500		~3.5
	25	12,500		16,000		~3.4
	30	75,000		52,000		~3.3
	35	350,000		165,000		~3.2
	40	1,000,000	500,000		~3.1
	45	2,400,000	1,500,000	~3.0
	50	4,500,000	2,000,000	linear: +100K/level
	51-90					linear: +200k/level
	100	30,000,000	15,000,000	linear: +300k/level

* Reworked Technomancy/Technology requirements
* Extensive work on Technomancy spoilers
* Added: 3 types of grenades, shuriken, jackhammer

Tuesday February 13, 2007
* New ability: Aura Light
* Bugfix: Constant effects may no longer be set negative
* Krillan now teaches Meditation
* Rulechange: Battle Aura now adds +2 AC per point of Chi Defense
* Unified chi drain rates from chi_constant and dbtstuff into a single function
* Eliminated all the 'no divide by zero' nonsense from the chi system
* Implemented the Remote Stop Device

Thursday February 15, 2007
 * Tracked down an extremely weird, sporadic fatal crash to the corruption system. 
   It's not being used yet...so I commented it out.
 * Fixed a silly crash bug related to Dr Briefs

Friday February 16, 2007
* Reimplemented chi masters
* Added some simple dialogue for Chaozu and Tenshinhan
* Clarified Techno quests somewhat
* Added and implemented rice

Sunday February 17, 2007
* Hmm. Alpha14. Hmm.

Tuesday, February 20, 2007
* RRA Cameras now trigger alarms

Thursday, March 1, 2007
* Upgraded Mai and Shuu
* Uncommented catnip and Videl follow option
* Added turtle shells for Master Rosshi's students

Friday, March 2, 2007
* Basic setup of the knowledge menu
* Converted quest descriptions to the alpha14 convention (which admittedly is much better)

Thursday, March 8, 2007
* Fixed an auto ID bug

Friday, March 9, 2007
* Fixed bug relating to dropping items in homes

Saturday, March 10, 2007
* Finalized map wrap workaround -- UNKNOWN SEMI_RELATED SAVEFILE CRASH BUG NO ERROR LOG!!! ARGHHH!!!!

Sunday, March 11, 2007
* Added Giran and his tail whip
* Extensive updates to the spoilers
* Unconditionally replaced FLAG_PERSISTENT with SAVE_LEVEL=true (sigh)
* General cleanup for release (yay!)

-------------------------------------------
changes from Version 0.8.5 to Version 0.8.6
-------------------------------------------
Monday, March 12, 2007
 * Added the tunneling subsystem
 * Fixed briefs_friend LUA error
 * Some work on Fusion

Wednesday, March 14, 2007
 * Fixed Kickboxing Challenge Quest
 * Fixed a FLAG_ACTIVATE bug
 * Commented out Steel egos.
 * Nerfed the BBB
 * 'Seiyan' --> 'Saiyan'
 * Fixed Giran's WT appearance
 * Monster special attacks:
	* Tourny opponent should no longer be forbidden from using special attacks
	* Implemented monster throws (not player throws)
	* Willpower now resists Ranfan's charm on a sliding scale, not "yes or no"
	* Rosshi can throw Chi balls again
 * Fixed items that modify speed! Yay! In-line skates are useful again!

Thursday, March 15, 2007
 * Speed bonus from running is now (Speed / 5) + (Dex / 10) with no min/max
 * Frozen Wastes no longer deposits you inside rock
 * Jump and throw effects no longer teleport you through walls or monsters
 * Using the Nyoi-bo now uses energy
 * Brought back Ninjutsu
 * Toxic River quest no longer uses the quest_desc convention
 * Re-worked the mouse hunt quest

Friday, March 15, 2007
 * Prohibited several robot and animal types from droping dragonballs
 * Fixed a bug in the xp ladder from levels 32-34
 * Xp Requirements over are now displayed to level 100

Saturday, March 16, 2007
 * Made some thematic corrections as I watch episodes
 * Added Buyon
 * Gave Murasaki an intelligent AI
 * Some work on capsule vehicles

Tuesday, March 20, 2007
 * Korin --> Karin

Wednesday, March 21, 2007
 * Bansho --> Basho
 * Rulechange: Any unique bird may now be used to create a Basho fan
 * Tsuru-Seni'nin now teaches flight
 * The Flying Nimbus is now more discerning about who is 'pure of heart'
 * Korin Tower is now a tower, not a spiral
 * Added a companion follow ai
 * New Uniques: Bosa, Oopa
 * New Artifact: Dark Nimbus

Thursday, March 22, 2007
 * Dragonball Earth is now 9 sectors

Thursday, March 22, 2007
 * Populated earth somewhat
 * Redesigned some map layouts
 * Tama now follows Dr Briefs around like a good kitty :)

Sunday, March 25, 2007
 * Added a throw ai
 * Monster skill makes throws more difficult to avoid
 * New monsters: Anton the great, Chapao
 * Implemented Bear hugs
 * Reduced speed penalties for sneak/search/immovable
 * Sumo now teaches Immovability once again
 * More work on the new 9-sector earth
 * Bug-fixed map-wrap on Namek

Thursday, March 29, 2007
 * Namekian dragonballs are now 300 pounds
 * More work on Earth redesign
 * Cosmetic changes to Namek
 * Hikui bird moved to the Volcano
 * Gave Yamcha his own AI
 * Starting redesign of Yamcha quest and dialogue
 
Friday, March 30, 2007
 * More earth work
 * Buruma is now a combatant
 * Marrying Rosshi no longer removes Rosshi as a trainer

Saturday, March 31, 2007
 * Worked on ai.MOUSE
 * New option: push past party members instead of talking to them
 * Customized the RRA Patrol
 * Fixed the speed/regeneration problem while climbing Karin Tower
 * Improved z-axis handling while climbing Karin tower

Sunday, April 1, 2007
 * Restored CAN_SPEAK hadnling to some ai's
 * Many monsters now have maximized hp
 * Set up RRQ SHQ

Wednesday, April 4, 2007
 * Added Puar
 * Some work on Yamcha dialogue
 * Set up the Buyon trap
 * Added dinosaurs and frogs
 * Umm...badgers are no longer considered birds

Thursday, April 5, 2007
 * Moved to alpha15 (painless!)
 * Started migrating terrain FEAT's to flag functions
 * Egos now use getter.ego() which should fix a variety of bugs and weirdnesses

Friday, April 6, 2007
 * Moved to alpha16 (mostly painless)
 * Monsters on SAVE levels are healed while the player is away
 * Steel and Poorly made ego types may no longer riposte
 * Redesigned the Underwater Caves climax
 * Bunch of cleanup
 * Added about 19K of quest dialogue for the Namek quests

Saturday, April 7, 2007
 * Implemented the Namek Dragonballs

Sunday, Apil 8, 2007
 * Hahaha! Fixed ai.MOUSE!
 * Fixed Yamcha
 * Fixed Capsules
 * General preparation for release

-------------------------------------------
changes from Version 0.8.6 to Version 0.8.7
-------------------------------------------

April 15th
 * Fixed some issues with the Nameks
 * Restored Martial Arts Supply Store

April 20th
 * Hp now updates immediately after enrollment
 * Removed the "item_kidx" message when attempting to purchase from empty inventories
 * Tameshiwari now works with tools equipped (Was tripping on the chainsaw check)

April 25th
 * Several minor bugfixes from the Wiki

April 26th
 * Slight development of the Ninja quest tree
 * Fixed Bear Thief quest desc
 * Clarified the post-CQ condition
 * Throwing
	* Being thrown from a WT match instantly disqualifies you
	* Monsters are slightly more intelligent about direction of throw
	* Fixed LUA error relating to player-monster collissions
 * Flying now prevents WT disqualification by ring-out
 * You may now fly over windows

April 29th
 * Fixed the Technomancy View Recipe bug reported by Nerdanel aeons ago
 * Damage now properly drains from chi when dead
 * You may now wish to be taller
 * Bumping into allies while blind no longer initiates an attack
 * Being caught eating during a WT match now properly disqualifies you

April 30th
 * Adjusted Earth difficulties
 * Adjusted some CAN_PASS flags

May 1st
 * General Blue's Lair now properly self-destructs
 * Resolved some water breathing issues
 * Giran tailwhip now checks for WT disqualification
 * Managed to get tunneling to mostly work
 * Pilaf
  * Placed the castle
  * Redesigned the world map slightly
  * Placed mushroom
  * Implemented the 'Rubble' quest
 * The WT Medic will no longer heal you DURING matches
 * Bugfixed Chi Burst
 * The hotel now correctly deducts zeni
 * Removed the Wolf quest requirement for Tsuru-Seni'nin (Since the Frozen Waste map is gone)
 * Turtle and Crane are now mutually exclusive

May 2nd
 * Fixed Curious Hole quest desc
 * Fixed bug preventing Demon King Piccolo from summoning

May 5th
 * Fixed "divide by 1000" display in enroll.lua
 * Enrollment caps which are unattainable because of the level + 10 limit are now shown in yellow

-------------------------------------------
changes from Version 0.8.7 to Version 0.8.8
-------------------------------------------

May 11
 * You can now buy items back from the pawnshop
 * Restored Chi Bursts

May 12
 * Restored Tofu and Gym
 * High capacity flashlights now start with max fuel
 * Groundwork for allowing technomancers to apply egos
 * Added Piloting and throwing skills
 * YMCA and Ninjustsu now teach Throwing
 * Partial Implementation of throwing
 * Sewing kits
 * High capacity tools
 * Quest: Videl's Challenge no longer corrupts the quest log
 * The foot ai works again
 * Moved the Ballet quest warehouse

May 15th
 * Technomancers are now allowed to use inline skates without the skating skill
 * Honda's Sumo Ring has been made slightly larger, to make ring-outs less certain
 * Tao Pai Pai? Check
 * Watches are now Technomancable
 * Corrected Master Lee's WT description
 * Fixed Anton's WT ai. (Check!)
 * A single point of Dodge no longer makes you immune to Bearhugs
 * Ballet and Ninjutsu are now properly exclusive
 * Ninja climbing claws now actually allow you to climb
 * WT Auto-bump now correctly advances you a round if you kill an opponent after he has already ben confirmed as your next opponent, but before you actually begin the match
 * Fixed medium blueprint LUA error
 * You are now informed of the required build tool when learning recipes from blueprints
 * New Uniques: Caroni, Pirozuki, Miss Piiza
 * Fixed the double 'b' in Karin's enrollment script
 * Redesigned Mr Satan's Estate

May 16th
 * Added placeholder for Technomancer house actions
 * Rebalanced weapon enrollment values
 * Karin tower is once again dangerous to climb
 * Fixed dam.BLIND
 * Cute little mice are now Neutral, so they shouldn't be killed by default
 * Rosshi now teaches strength
 * Fixed the Dragonballs
 * Serpent's Path Changes

May 19th
 * Briefs no longer traps the player in his lab
 * Karin now properly gives out Kinto Un to sufficiently good or evil students
 * Misc cosmetic changes
 * New unique: Punter
 * Two new boot types, croc boots offer charisma, some rebalancing

May 21
 * Fixed Pilaf LUA error when carrying Dragonballs
 * Fixed LUA error when wielding a LITE while tunneling
 * Implemented Chi Quest for Tsuru-Seni'nin
 * Rosshi now has his own ai
 * Fixed LUA error when very high level monsters throw Chi Bursts
 * Rosshi now drops the Nyoibo and a Turtle Shell
 * Rosshi now issues turtle shells to his students
 * Implemented binoculars
 * New ego: High voltage
 * Fleshed out Miss Piiza's dialogue
 * Elizabeth --> Sakura
 * Slight improvement of Ninja quest tree
 * New item: Samurai Do
 * Akira now pays you for the sushi delivery

May 22
 * Fixed dam.TYPES note_kill LUA error
 * Redesigned Ox Castle
 * Monks now do stuff
 * Reenabled Krillan's enrollment script
 * Reenabled Buruma and Lunch
 * Implemented 'Find Buruma' quest
 * A bunch of implementation for the North Kaio: Hammer, gregory, quests, etc.

May 23
 * Cleanup
 * Increased wish value of willpower from 2-4 to 4-6

-------------------------------------------
Changes from Version 0.8.8 to Version 0.8.9
-------------------------------------------

June 21
 * Tools no longer allow the player to breathe without air
 * It is now possible to suffocate in space
 * Spaceships now contain air to breath
 * The space surrounding the North Kaio's planet is no longer impassable
   to space travellers
 * It is once again possible to ride motorcycles
 * Buruma is no longer prevented from spawning once you've been given the quest to
   go find her
 * GPS no longer provides light	
 * Yemma now properly transports you to earth upon ressurection

June 24
 * Removed FACTION_UNDEAD
 * Added FACTION_NAMEK
 * Converted some maps to the new map border convention
 * Placeholder for the Kill the Nameks quest

June 26
 * Gah! Change list for today deleted!

June 27
 * Added some Namek dialogue
 * Removed the various VEHICLE limitations from Kinto Un
 * General White no longer activates the Buyon trap if he is dead

June 30
 * Extensive work on RRA SHQ

July 6
 * Clarified RRA cameras
 * Complete redesign of object themes
 * Objects that give resistence to blindness now say so in their description
 * Some item colors and symbols have been rearrnged. ''Most notably'' dragonballs
   are now orange, while baseballs and soccer balls are now white. No doubt this
   will give a bit of a shock to those who don't read change logs

July 7
 * Purged archaic object themes
 * Some cleanup of item descriptions

July 14
 * Migrated to alpha17
 * Purged some unused flags
 * Movement mode Running now:
   * Pretty much destroys your searching ability
   * Halves your natural healing rate (but does not effect Chi regeneration)
   * Halves any AC bonuses from Dodge
   * Halves any AC bonuses from high dexterity
   * Double any AC penalties from low dexterity

August 29
 * Updated corpses to a17
 * Fixed AI for RRA SHQ Missle Turrets and Cameras
 * Halved the effect of bleeding damage

August 30
 * Fixed Placement of SHQ Dungeon
 * Made the RRA external missile turrets slightly less overwhelmingly overpowered

September 10
 * Fixed a LUA error when running with exactly 10 dexterity
 * Updated a few more maps to the a17 edge convention
 * Yay! The player can open doors again!
 * Added the aerobics joke to Rosshi's house
 * Never moving monster now never move
 * Added the candy store
 * Added cute little puppy

September 23
 * Added submarine dock

November 1: Back from Japan!
 * Updated WT map for a17
 * New item: Television remote

November 2
 * Fixed store dialogues as per DarkGod: term.gotoxy(0, 0)
   Woohoo! It's possible to play again!
 * Reworked Crane Hermit's lair
 * Added custom AI's for Tenshinhan and Chaozu
 * Restored the White Wolf quest, and made it more evil
 * Added trophies to Satan estate
 * More maps to a17 convention
 * Character Sheet page 2 no longer generates LUA errors
 * Removed unused pages from character sheet
 * Yamcha runaway message now only appears once
 * Tenshinhan may now join your party
 * Friendly turtles no longer trap player on the stairs
 * No more -more- prompt from changing stats during character creation
 * Fixed weirdness from increasing intelligence at Robbins institute

November 3
 * Clarified the Nyoi-bo quest dialogues
 * Rosshi no longer insta-kills Crane students
 * It is now only possible to ever receive a single Kinto Un
 * Clarified Kinto Un pickup message
 * It should, in theory, in longer be possible to take Kinto Un off planet
 * Nyoibo is now SPECIAL_GENE
 * Nyoibo quest is now exclusive to Rosshi's students
 * Tentacle demon only drops Nyoibo for Rosshi students
 * term fix for failed rival enrollment attempts
 * Kinto Un now comes when you call via 'K'
 * Joke quest for the North Kaio is now only issued once
 * Fixed screen corruption when failing to open the Denshi Jar
 * Chi Bursts and throws may now cross the WT ring border
 * Kinto Un is now able to traverse mountains, trees and water

November 4
 * Restored ID skill requirement message when examining items
 * Muscle Tower patrol now sounds the alarm when attacked
 * Implemented the first Namek quest
 * Added leviathan

November 7
 * Monster items may now be enchanted, and auto-id if known
 * Tougher monsters are more likely to drop better items
 * ITEMS IN STORES ARE IDENTIFIED!!!! WOOT!
 * The paralysis display bug should no longer occur
 * Resmoothed the exp ladder
 * Immovability mode must be engaged to be immovable
 * Some development of the Piccolo thread
 * Iron Monkey now correctly appears in the WT

November 9
 * Ballet and Ninjutsu are now mutually exclusive

November 10
 * Fixed ai.NAMEK
 * Implemented Leviathan quest
 * Designer and Studded ego types now properly add resistance instead of replace it
 * Eliminated map-edge crash on Land of Karin

November 12
 * Added about 12K dialogue to the Piccolo/Kami thread

November 13
 * Finished RRA SHQ CAM map

November 14
 * Hahaha!!! Finally FIXED the randomess issues with SHQ and the Intro Gong!
 * Finished RRA SHQ INT and EXT maps
 * Ox King's helmet now grants blindness resistance
 * Finished RRA SHQ SHQ and Vault levels
 * General cleanup for release
 * Added some sound effects :)
 
-------------------------------------------
Changes from Version 0.8.9 to Version 0.9.0
-------------------------------------------

November 15, 2007
 * Started rewriting Splinter's dialogue

November 18 2007
 * Technomancy: Learned egos now identified by name
 * Ego items are now randomly generated

November 19, 2007
 * Fixed Lookout map
 * Mr. Popo's dialogue

November 20, 2007
 * Fixed electronics goods in juvinile map
 * Added better time indicators
 * Differentiated monster Chi Reflection and Chi Deflection
 * Finished Mr Popo's dialogue

November 21, 2007
 * The Nyoibo no longer wipes the stairs to Kami's Lookout
 * Tournament monsters are now "defeated" rather than "killed"
 * Trainers now regenerate properly
 * Monster chi bursts no longer do double intended damage
 * Implemented Kami
 * New quests: Defeat Mr Popo, Train with the North Kaio
 * Fixed the Joke Quest

November 22, 2007
 * Fixed Joesephine's dialogue
 * Doubled cost of Chi Healing
 * Implemented Chi Burst of Speed
 * Bos/Teleport/Throw induced monster collissions now damage the monster too
 * Fixed an off-by-one error in the throw collission code

November 23, 2007
 * Mice should no longer trap King Mouse, preventing quest completion
 * Joesephine can speak once again
 * Extensive development of party system

November 26, 2007
 * New salve: Body oil
 * Standardized grappling checks
 * Rebalanced instructors: Made Jacque and Honda slightly less powerful. Made Yoshi slightly more powerful.
 * (Persuade) options now tell you the required charisma to access them
 * Added about 10K to Splinter's dialogue
 * Tweaks to resting
 * Updated searching to alpha17
 * Artifacts that grant flying (Iron Umbrella, Kinto Un, etc.) now allow you to fly over traps
 * Bugfix: Blocking was incorrectly giving AC bonuses always for both hands. Blocking now only
   gives AC bonuses for both hands if the lpayer has DOUBLE_ATTACK

November 27, 2007
 * Added dialogue.quickie() from Bubblegum Crisis

November 29, 2007
 * Implemented Toxic Sludge quest
 * Implemented 10 Android Corruptions

December 1, 2007
 * Bugfix: No more player riposte when monsters attack monsters
 * Fixed LUA error when monsters hit monsters

December 2, 2007
 * Implemented rice cookers (again? I thought this was done ages ago)

December 3, 2007
 * New item: Flight jacket
 * Implemented integrated capsule craft
 * Implemented variable altitude flight: melee monsters may no longer attack
   high altitude flyers
 * Fixed motorcycles
 * Added a flight school to the airport

December 4, 2007
 * Fixed high flying
 * Eliminated sanity

December 5, 2007
 * Removed level+10 skill limit
 * Implemented Namek quest #3
 * Implemented monster deflection/reflection of Chi Bursts
 * Implemented Buruma marrying Oolong
 * Work on Lunch

December 7, 2007
 * Performed contortions to allow uniques on saved levels to
   also appear in the world tournament

December 10, 2007
 * Added some dragoball quirks
 * Cleanup for release
 * Further revision of item drop allocation
 * Duels are now level 20-23 dungeons, instead of level 1

December 11, 2007
 * Yet more cleanup for release
